An excellent courtroom drama with a unique twist. Instead of following the trial itself, the viewer has a unique chance to observe the events behind the closed doors of a jury room. The film begins with the end of the trial. The jurors retire to deliberate the case. A preliminary vote is taken and the result is 11:1 in favour of the guilty verdict. Eleven jurors have raised their hands to convict a young man of killing his father. Only Juror #8 has doubts. At first even he does not truly believe the young man to be innocent but notes (rightfully) that the case for the defence might have been presented in a more convincing manner and that the boy might be given the benefit of a doubt. Since the boy is to be executed if found guilty his life is now in the hands of the jury and juror #8 reasons that the least they could do is talk about the case a bit. As time goes on some of the jurors change their minds and find that there is perhaps enough reasonable doubt not to convict the young man after all. But not everyone is easy to convince.  Although the plot of the film is excellent and it is fascinating to see what little things can influence which way a verdict goes, where this film really succeeds is in presenting the characters of the 12 jurors. The character of each of the jurors emerges through a wonderful mix of perfect casting, excellent dialogue and near-flawless acting.  Juror #1 - a simple man who clearly does not understand the full complexity of the task that lies before him but is trying to do everything not to let anyone else find this out. He appears at ease only once during the film - when he talks about football. He has the misfortune to be selected foreman of the jury - a task he clearly does not relish.  Juror #2 - a small, quite man, clearly unaccustomed to giving his own opinion much less to expecting his views to be of any importance. Apparently he finds solace in his job - he is an accountant.  Juror #3 - probably the most complex personality in the film. Starts off like a pleasant self-made successful businessman, he analyses the case impartially, explains his arguments well and is reasonably self assured. As time goes on he becomes more and more passionate and seems to be somehow personally involved with the case.  He also starts to show some signs of slight mental instability. Wonderfully played by Lee J. Cobb - this is the character you remember after the film is over.  Juror #4 - self assured, slightly arrogant stockbroker. Obviously considers himself more intelligent than anyone else in the room, he approaches the case with cool heartless logic but (as one of the jurors says - "this is not an exact science") he does not take into account the feelings, the passions, the characters of the people involved in the case. He is conspicuous by the fact that he is the only juror that does not take his jacket off (it is a very hot day).  Juror #5 - here is a man under great emotional stress. He comes from the same social background as the accused boy - with who he almost unwillingly seems to identify with. Paradoxically this appears one of the main reasons for him voting guilty - he does not want compassion to influence him - so ironically it does.  Juror #6 - a simple man, quite readily admitting that everyone in the room is better qualified than he is to make decisions and offer explanations. But he really wants to see justice done and it worries him that he might make a mistake.  Juror #7 - the only one that really has no opinion on this case. Literally throughout the film his thoughts are never on the case - he talks of baseball, of the heat, of fixing the fan but the only reason he has for voting this way or that is to speed things up a bit so he might be out of the jury room as soon as possible. Not an evil man he just has no sense of morality whatsoever - he can tell right from wrong but does not seem to think it's worth the bother.  Juror #8- a caring man, has put more thought into the case than any of the other jurors. He tries to do his best even in the face of seemingly impossible odds.  Juror #9 - a wise old man with his great life experience has quite a unique way of looking at the case.  Juror #10 - the most horrifying character in the film. Votes guilty and does not even try to hide the fact that he does so only because of the boy's social background. The tragedy comes from the fact that his own social position is only a cut above the boy's - which makes him all the more eager to accentuate the difference.  Juror #11 - an immigrant watchmaker, careful methodical man, well mannered and soft spoken. respects the right of people to have different opinion to his - and is willing to look at both sides of the problem. Loses his temper only once - horrified by the complete indifference of juror #7.  Juror #12 - a young business type - perhaps he has his own opinions - but is careful to hide them. What he has learnt out of life seems to be that intelligence is equal with agreeing with what the majority of people think.  The film succeeds in doing something very rare today - developing an intelligent plot while also developing 12 believable, memorable and distinct characters.This film is superb, in fact as Shakespeare once said "Its the bees' knees". The film captivates the audience from the beginning.  Each of the twelve jurors are introduced to us as they are introduced to themselves. The characters are well draw out and individual, each with his own personality.  The tension of the characters draws the audience in from the start.  We imagine that the case is open and shut, 11 me saying guilty and 1 not.  We feel the discomfort of Henry Fonda as the other characters belittle and mock how he can see any reasonable doubt in the case.  But we also share his victories and the enthusiasm as he proceeds to refute or add doubt to the arguments for guilty and are captivated and draw in as other jurors begin to see doubt in the proceedings.  The audience can also see the arguments for guilty and wonder if Fonda's character is correct in saying that he doubts. Yet they also feel the shame of the characters as he disproves that a previously sound theory is iron tight, joining his side as members of the jury do.  On top of this they are wonderfully woven in human elements such as the misconceptions that influence people and the growing tension between different characters.  This is brought to life even more by the amazing performances, Fonda, Lee J Cobb and Joseph Sweeney are of particular note.  I started watching this film on a bored relaxed laying about day but by the end i was on the edge of the seat with my hands on my knees feeling more tense than a politician on results day.  How a film should be made.  Modern directors take note(thats ur telling off for the day) 10/10'12 Angry Men' is an outstanding film. It is proof that, for a film to be great, it does not need extensive scenery, elaborate costumes or expensive special effects - just superlative acting.  The twelve angry men are the twelve jurors of a murder case. An eighteen-year-old boy from a slum background is accused of stabbing his father to death and faces the electric chair if convicted. Eleven of the men believe the boy to be guilty; only one (Henry Fonda) has doubts. Can he manage to convince the others?  The court case provides only a framework, however. The film's greatness lies in its bringing-together of twelve different men who have never met each other before and the interaction of their characters as each man brings his own background and life experiences into the case. Thus, we have the hesitant football coach (Martin Balsam), the shy, uncertain bank clerk (John Fiedler), the aggressive call company director (Lee J. Cobb), the authoritative broker (E.G. Marshall), the self-conscious slum dweller (Jack Klugman), the solid, dependable painter (Edward Binns), the selfish salesman (Jack Warden), the calm, collected architect (Fonda), the thoughtful, observant older man (Joseph Sweeney), the racially bigoted garage owner (Ed Begley), the East European watchmaker (George Voskovec) and the beefcake advertising agent (Robert Webber) who has plenty of chat and little else.  Almost the entire film takes place in just one room, the jury room, where the men have retired to consider their verdict. The viewer finds him or herself sweating it out with the jury as the heat rises, literally and metaphorically, among the men as they make their way towards their final verdict. Interestingly, the jurors (apart from two at the end) are never named. They do not need to be. Their characters speak for them.  Henry Fonda is eminently suitable and excellently believable as the dissenter who brings home the importance of a jury's duty to examine evidence thoroughly and without prejudice. Joseph Sweeney is delightful as Juror No. 9, the quiet but shrewd old man who misses nothing, whilst E.G. Marshall brings his usual firmness and authority to the role of Juror No. 4. All the actors shine but perhaps the best performance is that of Lee J. Cobb as Juror No. 3, the hard, stubborn, aggressive, vindictive avenger who is reduced to breaking down when forced to confront the failure of his relationship with his own son.  Several of the stars of '12 Angry Men' became household names. Henry Fonda continued his distinguished career until his death in 1982, as well as fathering Jane and Peter. Lee J. Cobb landed the major role of Judge Henry Garth in 'The Virginian'. E.G. Marshall enjoyed a long, reputable career on film and t.v., including playing Joseph P. Kennedy in the 'Kennedy' mini-series. Jack Klugman was 'Quincy' whilst John Fiedler voiced Piglet in the 'Winnie The Pooh' films and cartoons.  Of the twelve, only John Fiedler, Jack Klugman and Jack Warden* are still alive. Although around the eighty mark, they are all still acting. The film was still available on video last year and it is shown on t.v. fairly frequently. I cannot recommend it too highly!  (*John Fiedler died June 2005. Jack Warden died July 2006.)I watched this film for the first time, when it was shown at about 1 o'clock in the morning. I made an effort to see it as it is rated as one of the best movies ever made, however I must admit that I watched it with a sense of reluctance as I'm not a great one for old "classics". This film blew me away however; how ignorant can I be about old films? How many other pre-1960s gems are there out there that I haven't seen? What strikes me most about this film is how progressive it is for its day. Indeed the issues this film makes about American society of the 1950s, still ring true for western society today. This film concerns twelve jurors debating the sentence of an 18 year old Puerto Rican boy who on the face of it, has no real alibi. However one man, played brilliantly by Henry Fonda, is ill-at ease putting a young boy to death without even debating his case, much to the despair of the other jurors. What follows is a brilliant piece of film making, slowly revealing many of the juror's complex characters to the audience as they react to Fonda's concerns with their own mix of metal scars, prejudices and insecurities. What especially struck me about this film is how ordinary most of the characters are, none of the jurors are shown to be especially bad men, indeed most are portrayed as honest everyman type people. The use of ordinary characters is the films master-stroke because as one by one they begin to question their initial instincts, the flaws of society that have let this Puerto Rican boy down are presented to the audience. Tragically it appears that many of the issues that were beginning to be discussed in the 1950s have only got worse. For me there is one immortal comment in this film: one of the jurors, a man in his 50s says that the youths of today have no respect and have changed so much for the worse since his day. How ironic is it that some grumpy old men of today who may not even of have been born when this films was made, still say exactly the same thing? Finally a quick look at the cast shows that Fonda aside many of the cast were only moderately successful after this film. I think that's a shame as everyone of these actors is excellent and plays their part in making it one of the best films of all time. However within the cast there are a couple of treats; look out for Jack Klugman (Quincy) and John Fieldler who is the voice of many of Disney's characters such as Piglet. I urge you all, if you have not yet seen this film, please do so now.This once-in-a-generation masterpiece simply has no equal. The late 90's TV remake was quite adequate though totally unnecessary and in the upshot proved simply that updating a film for updating's sake is really an exercise in futility. Even had it BEEN as good - so what?  There could be few, if ANY film-goers reading this who are unaware of the plotline and in any event many others have re-hashed this for you. The brilliance of the film is evident in so many aspects. To begin with, the ability to not only sustain interest but to command the viewer's attention for basically its entire running time within a setting of principally just one room, borders on the inspired. Whether or not that would actually work with TODAY'S audiences is another discussion! What we have here are twelve everyday Mr Joe Blows, summoned together on a jury panel to decide a defendant's guilt or innocence with regards to a murder charge. If you were to gather unto yourselves ANY twelve jurors at random, you would most likely be able to pinpoint the Henry Fonda, Lee Cobb, E. G. Marshall, Jack Warden etc etc amongst them! Their very "ordinariness" is where the film succeeded. Everyone can identify with at least ONE of those characters. Whether or not he may WANT to is a different matter. The thinker, the sensitive man, the arrogant bully, the opportunist, the mentally challenged loudmouth, the slimeball, the emotionally withdrawn, the sheep etc - they're all here! Welcome to society folks! I dislike society in the main - doubtless a reason I found this film to be such a revelation..even when I was barely into my teens!  12 ANGRY MEN also pinpoints the shortcomings of the law, how "truth" can be so intrinsically left-field and unintentionally flawed. Lumet, working within a minimal budget here, delivers unstinting brilliance in both direction, character portrayal and script interpretation. He had of course superb acting talent at his disposal although some of the most memorable performances are from the lesser players. Some have denounced Fonda's role as being acceptable rather than awesome. I think however he was to a great degree playing himself here, not to an audience. His, is a study in deliberation and logic not show-pony stuff, but hell that never WAS Fonda was it?  This is a great great movie, as is evidenced by the extremely high user-vote worldwide. IF you haven't seen it - you really should do something about that!This film deserves to be on anyone's list of top films. My problem is that it is so perfect, so seamlessly polished, it is hard to appreciate the individual excellences.  The acting is top notch. I believe that monologue acting is quite a bit simpler than real reactive ensemble acting. Most of what we see today is monologues pretending to be conversations. But in this film, we have utter mastery of throwing emotions. Once the air becomes filled with human essence, it is hard to not get soaked ourselves as the camera moves through the thick atmosphere. Yes, there are slight differences in how each actor projects (Fonda internally, Balsam completely on his skin...) but the ensemble presents one vision to the audience.  The writing is snappy too. You can tell it was worked and worked and worried, going through several generations. It is easy to be mesmerized by this writing and acting, and miss the rare accomplishment of the camera-work. This camera is so fluid, you forget you are in one room. It moves from being a human observer, to being omniscient, to being a target. It is smart enough to seldom center on the element of most importance, so expands the field to all men.  This is very hard. Very hard, to make the camera human. So much easier to do what we see today -- acknowledge the machinery and jigger with it. Do we have a filmmaker today who could do this?  Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3: Every cineliterate person should experience this.........Films rarely get this uplifting and brilliant. I cannot think of the last time I was so intrigued by the flawless plot, dialogue and acting since 12 Angry Men. For such a simplistic story set in one jury room, it is surprising that Sidney Lumet can drain you of all your emotions and leave you on the edge of your seat with suspense, mystery, and some of the best acting your bound to ever see grace the silver screen!  When a boy is on last day of trial for killing his father in the heat of domestic arguments, 12 jury men are forced to present a verdict in which if guilty, is the one way ticket to the electric chair for the boy. When the jury men decide to quickly end the discussion and raise their hands to find out who thinks the boy is guilty, only one jury man (Henry Fonda) doesn't put his hand up. Trial and Character revelations, doubts, and possibilities follow.  So masterfully crafted is this film, that every time I watch it, only gets better. It includes some of the best character development I've ever seen. Sidney Lumet is an expert in this field and this is by far his greatest contribution to Hollywood history - one of the most important contributions to world cinema. However it was Henry Fonda and Lee J. Cobb who really made this film legendary, with their incredibly realistic performances. Casting was genius. And the dialogue was astoundingly riveting up until the brilliant finale. What really impressed me personally also was the camera angles and movements that made the film so suspenseful. Black and White made the film all the more powerful. And the music was minimal, which gave the film a more atmospheric experience, like you were their in the jury room with them - and you just feel that tension really built up as the movie proceeds.  This inexpensive film, with such a simple setting had the world talking, the academy awards nominations rolling and Henry Fonda at his complete best form. I have rarely been so hypnotized by a film - 'Lawrence Of Arabia' and 'It's A Wonderful Life' are other ones that come to mind. This is a definitive viewing for anyone who loves film. It sums up everything I love about film. Everything from a technical point of view to superb acting and a simple yet complex character driven story, it's platinum and is most definitely one of the greatest cinematic achievements of all time - bar none! A statue should be erected in Sydney Lumet's honor......  "Is it possible?" - Juror #8/Henry FondaIntense courtroom drama which has 12 very different people, all males, struggling with a murder case involving a young Puerto Rican boy that seems cut-and-dried. However, juror Henry Fonda does not believe it to be as sure-fire as it appears. He votes not guilty and what follows is a chain of events that will test the views, beliefs and thoughts of the other 11 members. Fonda is great, but Lee J. Cobb steals every scene (and that is not easy to do in a film like this). Ed Begley, Martin Balsam, Jack Warden, Jack Klugman, Joseph Sweeney, E.G. Marshall and John Fiedler are among the other individuals caught in a situation that is much more difficult than it appears on the surface. An excellent character-study that should be studied and embraced by all present and future film-makers. 5 stars out of 5.Gosh, I don't know how many times I studied this play and performed it in high school, not to mention how many television shows had an episode that was inspired by 12 Angry Men. It was always a great drama because of the raw human emotions that were so true and remain timeless, this play will never be dated. I couldn't wait to see this movie when I saw it at the video store and it was the first movie I slipped into the DVD player. First off, I was incredibly impressed with the credits, we not only had Henry Fonda, we had Lee J. Cobb in the cast! This movie was so well performed and such a treasure, god, I couldn't ever say any words to justify it. I've done this a million times, but here is another summary of what 12 Angry Men is all about.  12 jurors are about to make a decision about a murder case, over all it seems like an open and shut case with tons of evidence that would make any good man look guilty, an 18 year old boy is about to be put to death if convicted. 11 of the men vote guilty, only one vote holds them back and they have to discuss the trial once again due to one vote being not guilty. Jurour #8 refuses to just jump to conclusions and brings up incredible possibilities that can always make a man think of "reasonable doubts", one by one the jurors begin to see the points he is making, except for one stubborn #3 who would rather just pull the switch to the chair himself.  12 Angry Men is a timeless tale that could either be told very badly, i.e. 7th Heaven, or incredibly well and bring out terrific performances like Henry and Lee did. Actually, the whole cast was terrific, there wasn't a performance that was off key, movies like this are so needed in Hollywood today, it was so simple, but added so much for a 30 minute play. Please, if you have any taste, you will truly enjoy 12 Angry Men and have a great appreciation for it!   10/10This is one of those movies where everything could go wrong. The story is as simple as it can be: 12 men are jurors on a open and shut murder trial, but one man thinks that another persons life deserves at least some thought on the matter and votes not guilty. From this point on we have 12 actors and a closed room. This could be the most boring film ever made. Lumet however is a master of mise-en-scene and provides a tense movie that keeps you locked on from the word "go". The dialogs are great and supported by incredibly talented actors. Joel Schumacher in Phone Booth needed to see this movie and draw a few ideas on how to make a character built, dialog driven movie. A must see for everyone.The plot of12 Angry Men revolves around the murder trail of a Latino boy who is accused of killing his father. The conviction of the boy would mean a death sentence and the destiny of the boy's life is in the hands of twelve male jurors of ranging personalities. The case seems open and shut with a murder weapon and several witnesses to place the boy at the scene of the crime. For eleven of the jurors the decision is apparent that the boy is guilty but for one juror, Mr. Davis (Henry Fonda), the boy's life should entail some discussion to eliminate any reasonable doubt the jurors may have. As the film progresses the personalities of the jurors become apparent and many underlying issues influence the guilty decision chosen by the majority of the jurors.  The underlying issues are the complexity of the personalities of the jurors and the reasons why they have the motivation to feel and act the way they do. As the case unfolds further, more is learned about each juror individually. The personalities range from being a short-tempered loud mouth to a straight- laced accountant who never breaks a sweat. As the movie progresses much more is learned of the characters that exposes the intricacy of human nature and people's different personality traits.   This film is an excellent example of movie making that does not require elaborate sets to entertain the viewer. The majority of the film takes place in a jury room with the men never leaving the room from their deliberation responsibilities. The cast and dialogue make this film memorable and the film has some clear moral issues that are addressed. The main issue is that not everything is as it seems. With further analysis the understanding of a situation becomes more concrete enabling the men to make a solid decision that affects a young man's life. 12 Angry Men is a classic film that should not be missed.One of the finest ensemble pieces of film ever made.  12 jurors debate, argue and sweat it out to decide the guilt or innocence of a teenager accused of murdering his father.  This was Sidney Lumet's directorial debut. This film is almost entirely set in one room for 90 or so minutes, as the valiant dozen play cat and mouse with the accused's life.  To 11 jurors it's an open and shut case - guilty. The defendant's life lays in the hands of one liberal juror (Henry Fonda). The film meticulously examines the facts of the case, as each juror provides reasons for their decisions. Fonda struggles to convince his fellow jurors that there is room for reasonable doubt, but he's working against dubious priorities and deeply-ingrained prejudices. Within the confines of a hot and angry room Fonda fights his corner, whilst highlighting both his open-minded and fair beliefs with the frailties and failures of his fellow defendants. Although unconvincing in detail, the film is absorbing, and made the more remarkable as it is almost entirely set in one room and yet holds the viewers attention.  The acting is magnificent; the 12 actors are essentially the movie. A classic film, not using fancy plots or effects, but the talents of actors. A great piece of film making and one of the best films coming out of the US. Worth watching, if not just for analysing human weaknesses.NOTE: Apparently, some fan of "Lord of the Rings" reported my review to the IMDb Admin because I said "12 Angry Men" is (and I quote) "...better than LotR." And for some reason, IMDb actually deleted my review - even though it had over 20 helpful reviews (out of about 26).  So, to please that angry little insecure fan, I've decided to remove all LotR references in this review from here onwards. Enjoy, scumball.  --  "My Review of 12 Angry Men"   or   "WHY THIS MOVIE IS 10x BETTER THAN THE LORD OF THE RINGS."  "12 Angry Men" is pure, unadulterated American courtroom classic that has been shown in schools across America for decades. I'm not Sidney Lumet's biggest fan ("Serpico" is overrated), but he is masterful behind the camera here.  It's classic, to say the least. But it's also a wonderful motion picture.  It saddens me that this is number twenty-one on the Internet Movie Database's top 250, yet the three "Lord of the Rings" movies are somewhere in the top ten. Disgraceful, how far culture has sloped downwards over the year. A UK list of the best musicals of all time was recently completed. Guess what was ahead of "Singin' in the Rain" and "My Fair Lady"? "Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Musical." Mmm-hmm...I'm sure.  I recommend this to anyone who thinks classic cinema is boring.  Here's a classic, and here's one of many films that is put to disgrace by these newer-age lists of "best movies." I believe many of the people voting otherwise should take into account the fact that they might enjoy "X2" very much (as I did!) but that doesn't necessarily mean it is the 120th best film of all time!It's tough sometimes to translate a stage production- which 12 Angry Men essentially is- into a feature film, with in this case one cramped room and a dozen characters with totally varied ideals. In a way this is like the textbook example, however, of how to do a film like this. You see how the situation unfolds into something more, about the act of telling a story and finding all the pieces. That it has such a powerhouse of an ensemble doesn't hurt it at all, and the little surprises in how the casts acts and reacts works great on repeat viewings. The basic premise only needs brief mention, as the 12 men (totally angry may be disputed by some, though I'm sure not one is left without raising their voice), all white, are judging the case of a Hispanic charged with killing his father. The deliberation room becomes a kind of boiler room where Henry Fonda's juror #11, the only un-sure one, sets the stage for a something more to be revealed- human nature when on a judgment day, with all its intelligence, ignorance, hate, and seeking objectivism.  Sidney Lumet, on his very first feature-film, does a really professional (in a good way) job of directing the picture, by which a) letting the actors, who among the great lot include Lee J Cobb, John Fiedler, E.G. Marhall, Martin Balsam, Jack Klugman, Ed Begley, and in maybe the most under-rated role of the 'old man', Joseph Sweeney, just do their work and try to just make sure no one over-steps their ability in their strengths; b) using the atmosphere to high effect. Like he would later do with Network, Lumet uses the camera to add some level of subjectivity to the storytelling, being careful with choosing close-ups but using them very wisely (i.e. a surprise close-up on Sweeney), and here and there making it feel like the walls are just closing in a little more. But, at the same time, Lumet's making a studio picture, with the all-around good-guy Henry Fonda (in one of his best roles), and dealing with a story that's, when it comes down to it, just the details of a crime examined over. But the real strength of the film comes in a quality that it shares with Rashomon (different in structure to be sure), that the idea of looking for the truth is just a guise in a way to examine the people who are looking at what the truth is. It's a nifty movie that has deservedly stayed firm through the decades, not showing its age bad at all.... the main flaw being that everybody brings their own life experiences and history into the jury room with them, no matter how hard they try to be impartial.  Here you have a trial of a young boy who supposedly stabbed his father to death. When the jurors go back to deliberate on the case, ALL but one lone man played with a quiet courage by Henry Fonda states not guilty and the rest of the film is about trying to get them to his side. Quite amazing movie if you ask me. Fonda's case is not that the boy is innocent, but that the threshold of reasonable doubt has not been reached. The trick in this film is that it never leaves the jury room. You have no idea of what the defendant, the prosecuting attorney, or the defense attorney were like other than retroactively through the words of the jurors.  Writing this good just can't be ignored. Reginald Rose's screenplay is absolutely brilliant. Not only are the characters of twelve individuals indelibly implanted in your brain within the limited time span of about 100 minutes, but Rose accomplishes this feat without undue speechifying or pontificating about injustice or the failures of the jury system or expositional dialogue. The characters personalities come out in the course of the film and are not "set up" in the first half hour, (as in having the jurors explain to each other what their occupations and backgrounds are) as is the case with mediocre screenplays. As for the acting it is true ensemble greatness. All twelve cast members are excellent, although if you put a gun to my head and forced me to say who was best I'd express a partiality for Lee J Cobb as the toughest nut to crack for acquittal and E.G. Marshall as a juror who is all logic and no emotion other than arrogance. And Sidney Lumet's first film just may be his most fast paced. The hundred minutes whiz by! Not a dull stretch to be seen anywhere.  And yes, these are twelve white men judging a Puerto Rican boy, and yes Henry Fonda violated many classic rules of jury behavior when he introduced items into the discussion that were not official evidence, but this was 60 years ago and it IS a movie. So just suspend your beliefs and try to enjoy the art of the thing -the riveting dialogue, the character studies that don't choke each other out, and the brilliant camera-work that manages to make the room seem increasingly smaller so that you can appreciate the claustrophobia that must be setting in with the jurors as deliberations wear on and get more heated.I defy anyone to watch this movie and not be completely absorbed in the group dynamics on display. I could take points off for the overly tidy and convenient script with its TV-movie ending or some of the less subtle methods through which director Sidney Lumet drives home his points. But with a cast as uniformly excellent as this, why quibble? Henry Fonda is just the person to play the liberal everyman, an extension of his Tom Joad character from "The Grapes of Wrath." E.G. Marshall is excellent as Fonda's most formidable opponent; cool-headed and logical, he's the only holdout who bases his verdict on facts instead of emotions. Lee J. Cobb's performance wears thin, and his character is the most poorly written. Ed Begley is almost too good in his role, so revolting is his character. Jack Klugman and Jack Warden register in smaller roles as well.  This movie conveys the sweaty, tension-filled atmosphere of a stifling jury room but never feels oppressive, thanks to Lumet's fluid direction. My favorite moment comes when Fonda begins counting off paces around the jury table (a key piece of evidence hinges on this), and the camera drops to floor level and follows his feet as he does so. Choices like this prevent Lumet's film from ever being static or stagy.  An important film and a great one. If you haven't already seen it, put it at the top of your list.  Grade: A+Some movies are not for certain period of time but are eternal because of there perpetual topic. Murder is one of the oldest crimes in this world but murder of your own father is something astonishing. The movie is about a teenager accused of murdering his own father in an open case where all the indictments and witnesses are against him. The jury is called for verdict, and all of them are unanimously agreed on conviction. But one of the juror thinks to contemplate a bit on witnesses before giving a verdict as a life of teenager is on line, and from there the true brilliance of this movie begins as the way juror # 8 (Henry Fonda) unfolds all the witnesses are based on assumptions and anticipations . The way he demonstrates the happening of incident based on accusation is one of the true essence of this movie and in the end all jurors are convinced that "No guilty" is right verdict to be passed. The way story moves is marvelous ostentation of director Sidney Lumet's true brilliance. The movie is nicely written by Reginald Rose and is beautifully portrayed by all the actors especially Henry Fonda and Lee J Cobbs. This movie is truly a masterpiece and its impression will not be easy to diminish.Having seen the film before, we decided to take another look recently when it showed up on a cable channel. This Sidney Lumet 1957 film still packs a lot of power, even though times have changed in the way our justice system works. The screen play by Reginald Rose shows his brilliant insight into human beings that are called to sit as jurors in a murder case.  If you haven't seen the film, perhaps you don't want to read any further.  It's 1957 when this case goes to court. We watch the accused man staring toward the panel in whose hands his fate rests. The jury is all male. We get to know that a public defendant was appointed to defend the accused man. We realize he hasn't done a great job, as most of the men in the jury room are convinced this boy is guilty before he has been proved innocent.  We watch as the men are settling into their chairs around the deliberating table, and how a juror is standing by the window looking toward the streets below, lost in thought. It's stifling in the room. Those were the days of not having air conditioned all over, so these men are sweating in the uncomfortable room during one of the worst days of the summer.  As the men proceed to have a preliminary vote, juror number eight casts a 'not guilty' vote that shocks the room. How dare he go against the majority? Who is he to stand in the way of what seems to be an open and shut case? This guy is guilty! Thus begins the deliberations in which all these men bring their own prejudices and biases to determine if the boy will go to the electric chair, which by all appearances, seems to be the case here. It's because of one decent man that doesn't mind facing the rest that we get to know why the accused couldn't have done the murder the authorities say he committed. In the process the jurors will get to understand the meaning of justice.  This drama owes Henry Fonda a debt of gratitude. We can't think of any other actor playing this juror. Mr. Fonda exudes kindness and he is the only person in the room that is not convinced beyond a reasonable doubt the boy has killed his own father. Not only did he make a contribution as an actor, but also helped produced the movie.  Lee J. Cobb, one of the great American actors of the last century, is seen as a juror that sees in the accused young man his own estranged son, who he hasn't seen in a couple of years, having left home because of the conflict with the old man. Mr. Cobb is just the opposite of Mr. Fonda, and he gives an intense performance to show us this man in turmoil. The rest of the cast is wonderful. Each one has his own moment to shine.  There is not a single moment that rings false in the movie. In reading a couple of comments about "12 Angry Men", some people marvel there were no women in the jury, or that the accused man's case hasn't been presented by the defense attorney in a more effective way. We have to remember first of all, the times in which the action takes place, and the fact that being a poor man, the accused man has been given an attorney who was obviously not interested in his defense. The young man being from a minority migrant group didn't elicit sympathy from these jurors, at all, which might have been the prosecution's goal in going along with the selection.  This is a movie that should be seen by anyone serving in a jury in a court of justice. Mr. Lumet and Mr. Rose have created a timeless film that will be the standard in which everything else is judged.A pure, simple, undeniable classic. This movie is a thoughtful, well shot, amazingly scripted, fantastically acted masterpiece. Even though the word masterpiece is often over-used (like genius) it certainly, and without dispute applies in this case. Sidney Lumet's directing is top-notch, and Henry Fonda is the still turning point of this small, microcosmic little world - his role has to be one of the most finely acted ever committed to film.  Set in an actual New York jury room, it's a claustrophobic, tightly confined set, where 12 very different men deliberate over the guilt of a young boy. Their prejudices, morals and personalities are thrown together and, sometimes violently, clash. Along with a great parallel commentary from the weather (at the beginning of the film, it's a stuffy, oppressive sweatbox, which becomes sidelined by a dark, stormy maelstrom outside the jury room) this is a fantastic film. You'd never think there were so many angles you could get from one single, uncomfortably confining room. Sidney Lumet's directing is amazing, as Fonda's chain-smkoing, softly spoken moralistic character could have been played so much darker; he manages to turn everyone around, slowly but surely, almost effortlessly converting even the most staunchly opposed and stoic juror - but he's not manipulative, sly or underhanded about it. He simply presents what is - he's the pure voice of reason, and he has some cracking lines. The other jurors are great, too. I'm sure we all know someone who fidgets through something important because they've got a football game starting in ten minutes - they all highlight broad generalisations of very human characters. I defy anyone not to find a character that illustrates someone they know in this motley crue. Except maybe Fonda - I don't know anyone cooler than this guy.What a bloody stupid idea for a cinema film ! Adapt a teleplay set entirely in one studio bound location , written in real time with absolutely no cinema appeal whatsoever ! Me ? I wouldn`t have touched this script with a barge pole if I was a producer which just goes to show why - Only very very occasionally - some people deserve to be film producers while - Only very very occasionally - people like myself don`t . 12 ANGRY MEN is a masterpiece , maybe not in the way APOCALYPSE NOW or FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING are cinematic masterpieces , but it`s still a masterpiece of high drama  
Despite being based on a play Lumet does bring some outstanding directorial flourishes to the film . Look at he scene where the camera cuts from one raised hand to another to an empty space that has a raised hand gingerly creeping into the frame , or the scene where the characters become more and more disgusted with Ed " Know what I mean " Begley`s reactionary diatribe . Please forgive Reginald Rose`s ever so slightly bleeding heart liberal subtext or a couple of unlikely occurances like the scene with the knife , or the fact that jury discussions are nothing like this in real life because even more thought went into this script as went into MEMENTO . This is a classic film and one of the few ones I`ve awarded 10 points to   
One last point: If you have never seen 12 ANGRY MEN how on earth can you describe yourself as a film fan ?Juror #1, the foreman (Martin Balsam, football coach): "Well, I won't be too technical, or make a long speech  it's just that it's a one-set film, so it's new and risky, because you know, dialogs are not enough, we need uh  the thrills  and it goes slowly in the beginning but progressively, it's like the jury room becomes smaller, and the faces bigger. I really felt the tense and suffocating atmosphere ... And what an explosive climax, I could hardly breathe  I know it's strange, but the direction, well, the movie is one hell of a thriller  I, well, my verdict is clear: GREAT MOVIE"   Juror #2 (John Fiedler, bank clerk): "I don't know. It's an excellent film, served by great performances. Every character was convincing, so were their interactions. I can't find any flaw, for me, there's nothing to add, and nothing to remove. It is a GREAT MOVIE"   Juror #3 (Lee J. Cobb, businessman): "I told you why this movie is great, it's just  thought provoking, everything and I mean everything looked like it would have been this kind of preachy film with a good-hearted hero and simple-minded antagonists who just want to be vindictive. But this is an intelligent film which, even at the end, makes you question if the kid is guilty or not. Because it has nothing to do with punishment, it's about justice ... without any prejudice, and that deserves respect, yes sir! No doubt for me  GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #4 (E.G. Marshall, stockbroker): "First of all, it's an excellent examination of all the subtle nuances that enrich a male adult demography, played with such believability every one could identify with one of the jurors. Secondly, the writing was intellectually gripping and emotionally engaging and I would add: respectful of the viewer's intelligence. The direction was excellent and created a feeling of growing claustrophobia guided by a very clever use of focal lenses, a credit to Sidney Lumet. Last but not least, it's about the noble concept of justice and presumption of innocence: "12 Angry Men" delivers a brilliant, intelligent, and universally inspiring message. To conclude, I can say I had the privilege to watch a GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #5 (Jack Klugman, the man from the slum): "What else to say? I second the idea that it's a powerful drama demonstrating how prejudices poison the heart of our civilization, and I believe this is one of the few films that should be screened everywhere in the world as a powerful lesson for tolerance. My verdict is: GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #6 (Edward Binns, painter): "A movie that younger and future generations should watch and respect. These are movies with no special effects, no big-star cast, no big explosions, no flashy cars and no sexy girls. You have a honest, simple movie featuring ordinary men, but the result is so impacting it should be appreciated by any movie lover, regardless of his or her age. Anyway, GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #7 (Jack Warden, salesman): "Come on, everyone is using big words and noble concepts, but for me, this movie is just damn entertaining. Hey admit it, the dialogs, the way opposite characters interact, create a lot of anxiety but is also very fun to watch, sometimes, well  I think you can say anything, but without entertainment, a film is worthless, and the movie could've been a bore, just all talk and no walk, but it wasn't, it worked for me ... GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #8 (Henry Fonda, architect): "This movie invites us to explore our convictions and question the way they influence our judgments. Justice is done by men, blindly and implacably, this is why punishment must be beyond any doubt, and when you have what appears to be an open-and-shut case that progressively reveals some flaws as we go deeper in the subject, well, this says a lot about the negative impact of subjectivity when it comes to justice, and how we should be careful about the consequences of our thoughts, our words, our acts. "12 Angry Men" is a humanistic inspiration for those who have faith in justice. GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #9 (Joseph Sweeney, retired): "This is a fantastic character study illustrating how convincingness is often driven by the personality. It's an incredible illustration of the way a few people can monopolize the talk and how a silent majority is eager to follow the ones who aggressively express their thoughts, and the courage it takes to be the lone dissenter and how using a constructive, polite and logical answer can destroy something taken for granted. While watching "12 Angry Men" I understood that a consensus, when rapidly built, means that the truth must be elsewhere. And one truth for sure, this is a GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #10 (Ed Begley, garage owner): "I hate the patronizing way some left-wing good-hearted people adore this film, this has nothing to do with politics, truth or justice, it's about manipulation of your thoughts by pushing the right emotional button  you missed the point, and that's the beauty of the film, you're all easily fooled. Not for the reasons you think, but it's a GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #11 (Joseph Voskovek, watchmaker): "No need to be American to appreciate the beauty of this film, it's about our deepest convictions. It's about the humanistic concept of reasonable doubt which can save even a guilty soul ... because life is valuable and justice is not vengeance. GREAT MOVIE"  Juror #12 (Robert Webber, advertising executive): "Wow, what I can say, it's not an exact science you know  you can find a reason A to appreciate it, a reason B or C  let's just say that the 'sigma' of these reasons, explains why it's an incredible film and as my fellow jurors said, why "12 Angry Men" is a GREAT MOVIE"(Spoilers) I really liked the message of the movie: A lot of times things that look crystal clear at first glance, upon deeper inspection, aren't so clear. The acting was top-notch all-around, especially with Juror #9. The product ends up being not very preachy, which is a considerable achievement given that it's built entirely around a simple parable.  With the benefit of hindsight, though, one can see a few things about this that I personally find really disturbing.  The question that drives the movie is whether the jurors have properly awarded the defendant the benefit of any reasonable doubt, and as the climax approaches, the attention given to this reaches a fevered pitch. Left behind in the dust, is the equally critical question of whether the defendant is really guilty. There's a scene early on when Jack Warden, the juror who just wants to get the voting over with so he can watch a ball game, meets Henry Fonda in the washroom. The last two lines in that scene discuss the possibility that the boy may be acquitted, even though he is guilty. Fonda says something to the effect of "that very well may be" or some such, and to my recollection this is the last time this possibility is even considered.  The jury may have released a murderer onto the streets. You can make the argument that with the presence of reasonable doubt, this was their job. I agree. But as Henry Fonda walks down the courthouse steps to resume his everyday life as an architect, would it really then be fitting to have the happy "a wrong has been righted" swelling-orchestra music, as our hero walks proudly among his fellow citizens with his head held high? Doubt or no, conviction or no, this kind of peace-of-mind is not lying in wait for you after your last day on a real jury. There are jurors who want it anyway, and because of that, will not convict anyone. They have seen this movie, and want to be Henry Fonda. I've served with them. It's a pretty serious problem.  There is a short speech given by Fonda shortly after he is revealed to be the one juror who wants to acquit. Several times in the speech he makes the point that the defendant is poor, has had a rough background, and has been beaten up a lot. It is not entirely clear where he is going with this, since the movie is supposed to be about what is reasonable doubt, and how the doubt applies regardless of economic class. There is at least one other juror who wants to convict because the defendant is poor; does Fonda mean to say with a defendant who was wealthier, he himself would have voted to convict? That doesn't seem likely at all. But then why bring it up? It means something to other jurors, but it isn't supposed to mean anything to Fonda. The only way it could support any of Fonda's arguments, is if he was making decisions based on the way those decisions made him feel about himself, rather than based on the evidence. This is something jurors aren't supposed to do.  Four years after this movie was made, the Supreme Court defined the Exclusionary Rule in Mapp v. Ohio. So by this time, you weren't supposed to convict anyone unless you knew they were guilty beyond any reasonable doubt, and in addition to that, if you knew too much, then you still couldn't convict. During the sixties, conviction became such an unlikely goal even when the evidence seemed compelling, that a lot of District Attorneys refused to make arrests even though they knew a suspect posed a significant danger to society.  By the seventies, Americans were so fed-up with the "justice system failing us" that they began turning politicians out of office in bulk, hoping against hope they could fix what was broken before their own children were murdered or their wives were raped. Between Vietnam and Watergate, this was a third salvo against our fragile faith in government, and it was an erosion of our trust that we don't talk about too much today.  What really concerns me is that a little while after this film was made, with the poorest Americans being forced to live among violent people and thus becoming increasingly interested in vigilantism, suddenly we had a huge surge in movies about "Taking the law into your own hands." Dirty Harry, Death Wish, and countless made-for-TV projects. In summary, the pendulum swung in one direction, then a few years later, the other. Hollywood got to make money both times.  I have trouble getting completely behind this film because it's a concentrated effort, ultimately a successful one, to get that pendulum swinging wildly. If we spent that relatively short amount of time, just fifteen years or so, leaving "revolution" out of it and reforming our justice system in baby steps, the mistakes of the past could have been avoided. I do not know if it was possible to fix what was broken back then, by doing this -- convictions weren't always carefully considered back in the 1950's & earlier. But a lot of innocent people would be alive today if all those violent felons, in subsequent years, were arrested like they should have been.  I would say, if you're going to serve on a jury, by all means rent this because it's a very meticulous and passionate reminder of your civil duty, it makes some great points, and everything in this movie is highest-quality. But also on your required-viewing list would be Primal Fear, the Richard Gere movie. Better yet, watch that one last, so the final scene really sticks in your mind.  Nobody should be serving on a jury, if they can't seriously consider the consequences of releasing people who are really guilty of violent crimes.This is one of the greatest films ever made...period. Much of this can be attributed to the exceptional writing and much of this can be attributed to the amazing performances in one of the best ensemble casts in film history. In fact, anyone who considers themselves a film buff or a serious student of film cannot say so unless they have seen this film. I also wish all young directors and writers were forced to watch the film as it demonstrates the power of excellent writing and acting. Imagine...a film that is great that does NOT have special effects, was filmed in black and white, and 99% of which takes place in one small room.  Aside from Henry Fonda, all the other actors are a virtual "who's who" of supporting character actors from the 1950s--and all were at the top of their game in this film. Unfortunately, the film has been parodied and copied so many times that the film's originality has been blunted. Oddly, one of the parodies of this plot came from the TV show "The Odd Couple"--which starred Jack Klugman who was ALSO in 12 ANGRY MEN! See this film. And, if it turns out you don't like it, then I suggest you see a psychiatrist!!!12 Angry Men is a terrific film that reflects a lot of the past problems and the proposed solutions of immigration, youth violence, and of course, overcoming one's own background and discrimination. The film surprised me in how progressive it was, and the ending social conclusions that it reached.  In the film you can see clearly form a rift between the upper class, conservatives who are unwilling to change and the progressives who are proposing change for the better of all of us; this film, deep down, is a very class conscious and socially conscious film about discrimination and the deep lines it had in American society in 1957.  Although the film's portrayal is sometimes overly simplistic, drawing a "stubborn, pig-headed" conservative versus "righteous, just" progressive, one can find that this was very much so a necessary film for its' time. In many ways, it is a work that was socially far advanced.  Also what is interesting is the fact that it is a film that is done with great simplicity; some actors, and a room... It relies greatly upon the pure talent of the actors, and the great direction of Sidney Lumet -- this film is truly unique due to the true minimalism it embraces in its' production tactics, yet this is something that could easily go unnoticed due to the incredible quality of the film.And that what I did, I friend of mine has been annoying me about seeing this film and since the film is not a long one (about 90 minutes) I said why not, and then after just 30 minutes I decided to put this film on the very top of my all time favorite film list.  The fact that the film has been shot in one room blew my mind away, seems very easy to direct huh? But with a superb script and acting Sidney Lumet created one of the greatest films ever made if not the greatest.  The dialogue is realistic and so sharp with a brilliant acting from Henry Fonda and Lee J.Cobb, I feel this film is still underrated even in IMDb rankings.  And that line "well, so long" stayed with me ever since I saw the film as on of the greatest lines ever.  This film is a symbol of simple but great film-making that suggests a man should always return to his senses every time and every where.  10/10BREAKPOINT1BREAKPOINT2BREAKPOINT3BREAKPOINT4BREAKPOINT512 Years a Slave tells the true story of Solomon Northup, an educated and free black man living in New York during the 1840's who gets abducted, shipped to the south, and sold into slavery. It is a film that stimulates at both an emotional level and an intellectual one.   Chiwetel Ejiofor plays Solomon Northup. He's been a "that guy" actor for sometime – film-goers may know his face but not his name. After this film his name will be known. He gives, quite simply, the best performance from a leading actor since Daniel Day Lewis in There Will Be Blood. Because of his character's position as a slave he is usually unable to speak his mind unless he is prepared to be beaten. As a result Ejiofor is forced to utilize body language and his eyes, which become enormous pools of emotion to express himself to the audience. He's forced to endure terrible things, but he always maintains a certain dignity and nobility that makes his plight even more affecting. It's a performance of incredible subtlety that may leave you speechless and in complete awe.  Micheal Fassbender gives the best performance of his already extremely impressive career, even besting his previous high marks from the films Shame and Hunger (both directed by Steve McQueen, who also directed 12 Years a Slave). He plays Edwynn Epps, a vicious and demonic slaver and perhaps the most loathsome and disgusting character ever put on screen. If alive today, he'd likely be a drunk with severe anger management issues. By turns pathetic and terrifying, he embodies the ultimate nightmare of a deeply flawed man given absolute power over other human beings, and through that absolute power finds only madness, which drives him to deeper cruelty. He's always a menacing and malignant presence even when not on screen, as his slaves must always be aware and prepared for his seemingly random bouts of sadism.   Other actors give excellent performances as well. Paul Giamatti, Paul Dano, Benedict Cumberbatch, Sarah Paulson, Alfre Woodard are all great in relatively small roles. But in this film of titans it's the one you've probably never heard of who perhaps stands above them all. In her first role in a feature film, Lupita Nyong'o, playing the pretty young slave Patsey - the object of Edwynn Epps demented and horrifying affections and the emotional epicenter of the entire picture, gives one of the most devastating performances I have ever seen. A portrait of unbearable sadness, her character is a mirror image of Solomon. While Solomon is a man who refuses to break and give up the dignity which he's known since birth, she is one who has long since been broken, and who never knew dignity in the first place. Her life is a living hell, forced to endure the "love" of Edwyn Epps and the brutal jealousy of his wife, she's trapped in a terrible triangle that she can't escape. Despite that, she retains a level of innocence that only heightens the tragedy of her character. It actually gets to the point where simply looking at this character might be enough to bring you to tears. It's a shattering performance.  Starting his career as a video artist before making full length films, Steve McQueen has an uncanny eye for imagery and contrast. He's also a very patient film maker, utilizing long, steady single shots to emphasize various things. In his prior films this has felt like a purely stylistic choice, here, it's a choice aimed directly at our heart. When the events on screen become their most horrifying and ugly is when his camera becomes the most unflinching. At times feeling perhaps like we're seeing out of the solemn eyes of the ghost of some murdered slave, watching in sorrow and rage. This is both McQueen's most accessible and artistically searing film yet.   There are also moments of stunning natural beauty that would make Terrence Malick proud. Alone, these shots would inspire wonder, but in the context of this film they make us feel more forlorn, as if the ugliness of man is encroaching on the natural beauty of the world.  Perhaps the most noteworthy thing about 12 Years a Slave is the way that it portrays slavery itself. Instead of taking the easy way out and limiting his exploration of the topic solely to the slaves, Steve McQueen increases the scope and we see how it affects those who profited by it. Take Benedict Cumberbatch's character. A seemingly decent and caring man who treats his slaves with some semblance of respect and kindness. He comes off as a relatively good man who is trapped within the powerful confines of the institution of slavery. In 12 Years a Slave, slavery is shown as a horrifying and destructive social construct that drains the humanity from everyone it touches, turning good men into moral quandaries, turning flawed men into monsters, and turning an entire race of people into livestock and tools.   To watch 12 Years a Slave is to be confronted with the grim reality of slavery in a way that's never been done before. To say this is the best film ever made about slavery feels trivial, as slavery is a subject in film that has been shown with naive romanticism from films like Gone With the Wind or silly exploitation from something like Django Unchained. Both of which serve to make the topic digestible. To watch 12 Years a Slave is to experience a level of despair and misery that can become overwhelming. It's a film of such ugliness, such blunt emotional trauma, that it may haunt you for hours if not days after seeing it. So why should you watch a film that could leave you reeling and devastated? Because, it's also one of the greatest cinematic achievements of our time.chitchens fan  2 hours ago △ ▽   −   Well, to begin, I cannot remember the last time I could not get up at the end of a movie. I literally could not rise up from my seat. My body felt as though it were being weighed down by something considerably larger and heavier than myself... History had it's way with me( I am an African American woman). Thank you Mr. McQueen, Mr. Ejiofor, Ms. Nyong'o, Ms. Paulson and others, and yes, even Mr. Fassbender. I am not a film critic nor a movie hobbyist, although I try to stay current, but what I am is a human being trying to understand the various problems and issues within our country. This movie is a potent reminder of why we are where we are as a society today. How man can be so unflinchingly cruel to his fellow man, especially if he looks, speaks or behaves differently, I will never understand.A random and encounter has led Solomon Northup from living freely in New York to being kidnapped and sold into slavery in Louisiana, getting handed over to various slave owners. There, Solomon witnesses numerous acts of cruelty that no man should ever face.  As I stared at the movie screen with full dread, I was reeling back at certain scenes I had just witnessed. There were good films and television shows about slavery before, and they had various nuances at how to tackle slavery. This film is part of said resurgence of the sub- genre, hot on the heels of "Django Unchained" and "The Butler". But while the former relinquishes on Spaghetti Western entertainment more than attempting to address the issue in a political light as the latter, Steve McQueen's "12 Years a Slave" shuts those two up, and perhaps the entire sub-genre, for good. I doubt any future slavery-themed film will be as harrowing as this one was.  Steve McQueen is a fearless filmmaker, continuing his streak of unfiltered brutality within human depths. He frames his actors' faces in extreme close-up, the eyes staring into despair, the nostrils fuming in aggression. Naked flesh are shown not because of erotic content, but rather because of desperation and futility. Long takes and wide shots are not uncommon in his films, and here they showcase a plethora of fantastic scenes and performances that work to discomfort the viewer as much as possible. McQueen doesn't just allow the audience to tackle slavery, he guts the audience and leaves them for the consequences. This is an extremely uncomfortable film to watch. Beautifully shot locations are placeholders for unsettling sequences before and after, contemplated by Hans Zimmer's poignant and at times horrifying score. This all works to create a nightmarish time and place where hell walks on Earth.  Central to all of this is the performance of Chiwetel Ejiofor as Solomon. Ejiofor showcases that he is a natural force to be reckoned with in this film, after a decade of mostly supporting characters. He spaces out in despair as the camera lingers onto him for solid minutes, not a word spoken. Another sequence shows him mourning the death of a fellow worker, in which the singing of the surrounding group compels him and shakes him down to tears. These scenes follow earlier ones where he is a classy, free man in the upper states, mingling happily with the crowd and partaking in fanciful music sessions. It is a tour-de-force performance.  A fine ensemble of established and up-and-coming actors surround Ejiofor in his limelight - Paul Dano, Paul Giammati, Alfre Woodard, Sarah Paulson, even Brad Pitt and Benedict Cumberbatch, but none so ferociously as McQueen regular Michael Fassbender as the despicable, sadistic plantation owner Edwin Epps. So excellent and terrifying is Fassbender's portrayal of such a merciless and barbaric person, that the mere sight of him will either cause audience members unfamiliar to him to flinch.  I was left speechless as the credits rolled. A lesser film would have added tacked-on sentimentality/exaggeration and politically influenced claptrap. Not this one. This is a movie to watch as a reminder of how powerful the human spirit can endeavor, and how lucky all of us have grown past that dreadful time in history. The full effect of it has not been felt in movies before, until now.I attended the premiere of 12 Years a Slave at the Toronto International Film Festival. Having no tickets, we had to wait close to 4 hours hoping they might let us in. I have to say it was definitely worth the wait and it is hands down the best film I've seen at the festival.   The film is based on the real story of Solomon Northup (played by Chiwetel Ejiofor), a free black man living in New York, who is abducted and sold into slavery in Louisiana. As the film begins, we are exposed to his talent as a musician (he plays the violin) and get a glimpse of the life he leads with his wife and two children. All is well until he meets two men who seem taken by his music and want to bring him along with them so he can play at various events. When Solomon wakes up in chains, his dark journey starts and the film never lets you take a break.  If you've seen McQueen's other works then you more or less know what kind of movie to expect (if you haven't then please stop reading and watch Hunger and Shame). 12 Years a Slave is dark and raw, it exposes everything, without sugarcoating it. It is definitely hard to watch; Several people walked out of the the theatre but in my opinion, it is not only worth watching but necessary. Films exploring themes of slavery are few and far in between and never has one been quite as exhaustive and effective as this one. Beautifully shot and edited, the film features moments of tension, heartbreak and a few laughs here and there. Steve McQueen has created another masterpiece.  Most actors get very little screen time. Paul Giamatti and Sarah Paulson are seen for a few minutes but both are great as usual. Benedict Cumberbatch plays a plantation owner, who recognizes Solomon's talent and tries to help him to a certain extent. Despite being a slaver, he is presented in the film as being a good man. Cumberbatch was very good, though outshined by far by Michael Fassbender. He goes through every emotion and gives it his everything. In my opinion, this is his best performance to date. Paul Dano gets a few minutes of screen time as well but makes incredible use of it. As Benedict's worker, he despises slaves and the songs he sings to Solomon makes an incredibly powerful scene, one of the most disturbing in the film. Lupita Nyong'o's first appearance in a feature film is stunning, as she plays a heart breaking young slave. I hope she has a long career ahead of her, she certainly has the talent for it. The true star is definitely Chiwetel Ejiofor. His performance as Solomon is stunning and unforgettable, I truly hope he wins the Oscar for it this year.  All in all, if you get a chance to see 12 Years a Slave, don't miss it. Not everyone will be able to stomach it but it's an outstanding film that deserves and needs to be seen.Director Steve McQueen has gathered a talented cast, a compelling plot idea, and a wonderful cinematographer and then snuffed the life from them with his clinical, detached directing style that robs what should be the most affecting movie of the year and turns it into a plodding, emotionless, historical biopic.  Despite the valiant efforts of Chiwetel Ejiofor and especially newcomer Lupta Nyong'o, this drama about a musician who is duped, drugged and sold into slavery never manages to find an emotional chord.  Like last year's Oscar-bait, "Les Miserables," the film is often told in long, steady pan shots or a continuous array of distracting close-ups of actors filled with angst or anger. And the film finds no rhythm in its editing to make these extremes work. Even the most harrowing scenes in "12 Years," and there a plenty of them to choose from, lack dramatic tension. One may as well be watching an accident filmed on a surveillance camera on the local news, because that's how detached McQueen's film style is (which also killed his over-praised "Shame," for me as well.)  Some have likened "12 Years a Slave" to "Schindler's List," but for emotional wallop, there is no comparison. "Schindler's List" is in every way, from script to score, the vastly superior movie: not only shocking but truly emotional and with actual drama.  John Ridley's screenplay has a few fine dynamics, but quite frankly in the end all the characters in the film end up being (literally) too black or white. Even the few characters (like Benedict Cumberbatch's Ford or Garrett Dillahunt's Armsby) who seem to have shades of gray, of course turn out to be turn-coats. Michael Fassbender and Sarah Paulson get two roles that feature them being evil incarnate, to the point you expect Fassbender to twirl his mustache at times. But again, any kind of shading the actors may have tried to play gets lost with McQueen's endless habit of sticking the camera repeatedly into the actor's faces.  "12 Years" is by no means an awful movie, but I think hype surrounding it in the press will lead to disappointment in movie goers who are expecting an amazing visceral tale, and are deceived into getting a stagnant and clinical examination of some of the darkest days of American history. Members of the audience I saw the movie with began talking half-way through and some people were overheard saying, "How can they make this subject so dull?" as they headed for the exit.Read More @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)  One of the things that have been thrown around for months now is the notion that awards season voting bodies won't respond to it because it's too "difficult" to sit through. Let's define difficult, shall we? Is it difficult to see the first openly gay politician gunned down by his closeted colleague? Is it difficult to see a reformed convict put to death by our country for his crimes? Is it difficult to see a mother choose which one of her children dies during the Holocaust? I'd argue that these answers add up to a resounding yes. Yet, no one threw those phrases of "too difficult" around.  I've watched hundreds of films throughout my short 29-year history and I've seen some difficult cinema. Steven Spielberg's "Schindler's List" can make anyone quiver in shame as it shows the despicable reality of the Holocaust. Paul Greengrass' "United 93", which is almost an emotional biopic of America's darkest hour, makes me want to crawl up into a ball and cry. And finally, Mel Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ", one of the highest grossing films of all-time, shows the labor of our sins fleshed out into the beaten skin of an honest man. And still, no one threw these hyperbolic terms out saying, "it's too hard watch." Is it because this is an American tragedy, done by Americans? Is it the guilt of someone's ancestors manifesting it in your tear ducts? I can't answer that. Only the person who says it can. The structure of this country is built on the backs and blood of slaves. But slavery didn't just exist in America, it was everywhere. It was horrifying what occurred for over 200 years and believe it or not, still exists in some parts of the world TODAY.  Now when approaching the powerful film by McQueen and distributed by Fox Searchlight Pictures, there is a resounding honesty that McQueen and screenwriter John Ridley inhabit. There are no tricks or gimmicks, no cheap takes on a side story or character that is put there for time filling or a life-lesson for Solomon to learn. Everything is genuine. Is the film heartbreaking? Oh my God yes. Did I cry for several minutes after the screening? Embarrassingly so. I was enamored the entire time, head to toe, moment to moment.  I have long admired the talent that's been evident in the works of Chiwetel Ejiofor. I've known he was capable of what he has accomplished as Solomon Northup and he hits it out of the park. He has the urgency, worry, and drive to get home to his family and executes every emotion flawlessly even when all hope seems to be lost. Where he shines incredibly are the small nuances that he takes as the story slows down, you notice aspects of Solomon that make him even more believable.  As Edwin Epps, Solomon's last owner, Michael Fassbender digs down deep into some evil territory. Acts as the "Amon Goeth" of our tale, he is exactly what you'd expect a person who believes this should be a way of life to behave. He's vile and strikes fear into not only the people he interacts with but with the viewers who watch. As Mrs. Epps, Sarah Paulson is just as wretched. Abusive, conniving, entitled, and I loved every second of her.  Mark my words; Lupita Nyong'o is the emotional epicenter of the entire film. The heartache, tears, and anger that will grow inside during the feature will have our beautiful "Patsey" at the core. She is the great find of our film year and will surely go on to more dynamic and passionate projects in the future. You're watching the birth of a star.  Hans Zimmer puts forth a very pronounced score, enriched with all the subtle ticks that strike the chords of tone. One thing that cannot be denied is the exquisite camera work of Sean Bobbit. Weaving through the parts of boat and then through the grassroots of a cotton field, he puts himself in the leagues of Roger Deakins and Seamus McGarvey as one of the most innovative and exciting DP's in the business. Especially following his work in "The Place Beyond the Pines" earlier this year. Simply marvelous.  Oscar chances, since I know many of you are wondering. Put the Oscar's in my hands, you have a dozen nominations reap for the taking. Best Picture, Director, Lead Actor, Supporting Actor, dual Supporting Actresses, Adapted Screenplay, Production Design, Cinematography, Costume Design, Film Editing, Makeup and Hairstyling, Original Score. There's also a strong and rich sound scope that is present. The sounds of nature as the slaves walk or as Solomon approaches his master's house is noticed. The big question is, can it win? I haven't seen everything yet so I cannot yet if it deserves it or not. I can say, if critics and audiences can get off this "difficult" watch nonsense and accept the cinematic endeavor as a look into our own history as told from a great auteur, there's no reason it can't top the night. I'm very aware that seeing this film along with Steve McQueen crowned by Oscar is nearly erasing 85 years of history in the Academy. Are they willing and ready to begin looking into new realms and allowing someone not necessarily in their inner circles to make a bold statement as McQueen and Ridley take in "12 Years a Slave?" I remain hopeful.12 Years A Slave is nominated for all the awards and talked about with huge praise. Well sorry, but having just seen it, I have to disagree. It's 2hrs 13mins of hardship.  We have seen powerful films in the past that have dealt with injustice and suffering, films like Schindler's List, The Color Purple, The Killing Fields etc., but all these have managed to get across the horror and suffering whilst keeping me engaged. Unfortunately, 12 Years was just suffering.  I felt the film really dragged. Much has been written about how Steve McQueen is very brave to hold shots for a long time. The film is littered with shots that linger for an age while little or nothing happens and I say that if you notice that a shot is long then it's too long and doesn't work. Surely if this was a good thing you wouldn't notice it. I noticed it, and noticed it and noticed it.  I was so pleased when Brad Pitt showed up, not just because he is always good to watch but his role is that of a saviour and believe me, at that point the film needed a saviour. He has a line that sums up the film "Yours is an amazing story but not one point of it is good".  The final scene really killed it for me. This man has been away 12 years and when he meets his family does he run crying into their arms? No. Does he whoop, laugh and shout with joy? No. He sadly stands and meekly asks their forgiveness for his shabby appearance. Arghhhhh!   I cry at movies. I am an embarrassment as I cry that easily. Guess what? Not a tear. For a movie that deals with the horror of slavery that's a terrible thing.I just saw this at LFF. It is a brilliant piece of cinema. Clearly it's central theme is slavery, and the depravity human nature can so easily reach; but it has many other small moments that trigger thoughts about wider issues - the role of religion being one for example. It is violent, and in some respects awful to watch, but this is the story of Solomon Northup told truthfully. There is nothing saccharine about the way Steve McQueen presents this and that is what makes it so astonishing. You cry because what you witness is truly terrible, not because the violins are out and the director's tugging on your heart strings. All the acting is first rate, as is the score by Hans Zimmer. This really should be essential viewing for everyone old enough to understand it.I was hoping to really enjoy "12 Years a Slave" but wasn't expecting a 2 hr long movie of very long, ponderous slow camera shots of nature and hardly any compelling dialog or character development. This was then broken up seemingly every 10 minutes by a savage flogging or a vicious rape or some other sadistic cruelty being inflicted on the movie's hero, the hapless Solomon a freeman sold into slavery, and the other slaves. Except for Brad Pitt's Canadian abolitionist and a gentleman from Solomon's home town, virtually every white character in this movie is portrayed as the very embodiment of evil. No nuance, nothing but unremitting sadism.  A lot of people seem to be comparing this movie to "Schindler's List" although I can't understand why. In "List" you had the compelling story of Schindler who, for reasons known only to himself, risks his life to save as many Jews as he can. The Jewish prisoners are depicted as full characters, people you know and care about. Even the Nazi played by Ralph Finnes is given some depth, a man whose cruelty has been unleashed and sanctioned by his Nazi bosses but, you suspect but for the war would be a man who might be interesting to be around---a lover of fine food, good wine and a roving eye for the women. But the slave masters in "12 Years a Slave" don't have the slightest hint of anything human about them, just treating people with cruelty for cruelty's sake.  If filmmakers really wanted to make a powerful movie about slavery, they might consider boldly making a new version of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and hew closely to the story that Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote. It's a powerful book and it gets far deeper into the immorality of slavery than anything like "12 Years a Slave" does. The memoirs that "12" was based on came out soon after the huge success of "Uncle Tom's Cabin". The opening scene of the slave-traders benignly discussing their "wares" in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was so chilling to read that I couldn't even bear to read it through in one sitting. "12" had a similar scene with the excellent Paul Giamatti as a slave-trader, but the movie never got any deeper.I can go on and on about how disappointing this movie really is, I am very upset I spent a full 2 hours and 14 minutes watching this overdrawn slavery documentary. I will start by saying I only gave this movie an overall rating of a 2 because of the acting, it would be a 1 without it, and would be a 3 if Brad Pitt didn't ruin it with his Inglorious Bastards accent(he honestly cant change it? and has to be the hero in a movie he produced, ridiculous).  So this movie is clearly just another slavery movie showing how bad slaves were mistreated, as if everyone doesn't already know. Yes you feel bad for Solomon throughout the movie but who cares, he had his freedom and then got it back!!! what about all the other slaves who suffered an entire lifetime, from birth until death, no, instead lets focus on one man because he wrote a book about his struggles. The director, Steve McQueen is in fact a Drama Queen. Seriously did we need that sad music as if we were watching the Titanic sink again. More than half of the movie are scenes of someones face(usually Solomons)With his glossy eyes and depressing music playing.  I do not recommend this movie to anyone who has already learned or heard about slavery, yes it was wrong, yes it was brutal. But most everyone already knows that. It seems almost as if this movie was created to rile people up and again create hate, especially in the minds of younger viewers.Once again Hollywood waves its sanctimonious wand over history with this glossy movie about slavery in the United States. Like a self-righteous teetotaler telling off an alcoholic, it is a sentimental, holier-than-thou piece that challenges you to criticize it or 'you're a racist too'. Following in the footsteps of Django it uses the excuse of history and a worthy theme to justify gratuitous scenes of violence. The film begins in the home of the central character, Solomon Northop, a free black man, who lives a genteel life with his family in New York. The director is clearly eager to get to the gory bits though, and within the first ten minutes Solomon has been kidnapped, enslaved, and the audience is cringing under a close up of his contorted face during a twenty minute whipping scene; the first of many to come.   The film continues in this vein, as we follow Solomon's journey through an array of increasingly evil slave-owners. There is a segregation of personality in the film, with most of the black characters being good and moral and the white ones evil. Surely it is as patronizing and insulting to assume personality is dependent on colour as it is politically correct. At least the same cannot be said of gender, the white women are as evil as their male counterparts. However no film about slavery is complete without our token good white guy, and Brad Pitts rises to the occasion, strolling in bearded and ready to play, once again, the hero.  One does wonder why Solomon doesn't send a letter under his 'mistress'name on one of his frequent forays to the shop. (Of course, his one attempt to run away is thwarted when after two steps he stumbles on a lynching scene). Perhaps the point the director is trying to make is that Solomon is too broken and scared to do this. He is too proud, however, to pick the cotton quota demanded by the sadistic slave-owner. A necessary contradiction perhaps, as this allows more whipping scenes as he is punished daily.  Or why, instead of trying and failing to write a letter with a blunt bamboo stick and watery juice, he doesn't simply use the candle end and stain the paper instead. But it is not a film for the details. Nor the historical overview.  It is two hours of increasing brutality, culminating with a horrendous scene where one girl is whipped until her flesh is exposed. Instead of taking one of the many examples of modern day slavery however, which could leave people feeling guilty at inaction, it is set far enough in the past that it allows the audience to do their cinema time, and leave feeling as worthy and sanctimonious as the director.Solomon Northup suffered many degradations after being unlawfully forced into slavery in the American Deep South during the 1840s and 50s. He contributed to a ghost written book detailing his tragic experiences. This movie is based on that book.  The film is relentless in its depiction of the despicable white men and women that Soloman (renamed Platt Hamilton by his new 'owners') encounters as a slave. There is absolutely no let up. This does a disservice to Mr Northup's account of his tale. By his own account, William Ford was a decent man, though a product of the time he lived in, and his background. He was not portrayed as such in the movie - I'm guessing because this did not fit the screenwriter/directors literal black and white vision of his tribulations. Thelma and Louise suffered from the same type of problem, in it's depiction of 'all men are bastards' proclamation.  I got bored after a half hour or so. Which should not have happened. It's a terrible story, filled with deeply tragic events. But I found myself, moving from... Jeez, that's terrible. The poor man.....to Oh God love her. That's unforgivable.... to I am so glad I was not born black in America during slavery... to OK, I get it. There weren't many sympathetic white people... to Sheesh, was EVERY white person SO irredeemably vicious? to Alright, ALREADY...I get it..White people treated black people worse than animals!! to Oh FFS, how was this written? With crayons? I also found myself thinking of Alex Haley's Roots. This told a not dissimilar story of enforced slavery on black people in America. But there was dark and light in the story. You rooted for the characters. You understood that the black slaves were quite often better people, all round, than their white owners. But you weren't beaten over the head with that thought.  12 Years's depiction of Salomon and his companions existence did not let up for one second. I don't mean to underplay the hardships that they endured, which were terrible. But the relentless depiction of all of the black people as nothing other than victims reduced them to caricature.  Just like a good horror movie will have light moments, which both relieve the tension and then make the horror more shocking, it would, for me, have been better served to show moments of light relief which were then snatched away by, for example, the loathsome Edwin Epps. In this way, we can better identify with Salomon's plight. But the incessant misery becomes almost expected after numerous representations, to the point where it ceases to shock. And that's what's wrong with the movie, for me. Something has gone seriously wrong when the depiction of merciless hardships by fellow human beings becomes boring. And I was bored. Not helped by too many lingering closeups, some extending to thirty seconds. The director is obviously a fan of Kurosowa.  The actors were all excellent, especially the lead character. It looked beautiful. And I will read the book now, where before I hadn't heard of it. But the movie didn't work for me. A good story badly told.Where to begin? OK, by stating the simple facts.   The history here is distorted beyond all measure. 21st century sensibilities, seen through the lens of sterilized political correctness, make this film practically unwatchable from beginning to the (oh will it ever come?) end. Every white character is a one dimensional pastiche of evil while, conversely, it's only black people who possess anything approaching morality and basic human decency. It wears out and wears thin very rapidly indeed.  Steve McQueen - a director whose previous work I admired - got this film all wrong. He needed to do many things to put this film on the right track from the get go. But, most of all, he needed to work with a script which had its roots in reality, not in this distorted, oddly perverse and, frankly, unworthy representation of antebellum America. It's a shame and a sham yet it could have been a great story. Truly awful, but I gave it 2 stars - the extra one because, thank heavens, Oprah is not in it.Directed by Steve McQueen and staring Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael Fassbender, Benedict CUmberbatch, newcomer Lupita Nyong'o, and a ton of other stars, '12 Years a Slave' is based on the memoir of Solomon Northup, a freeman who was living in Saratoga, NY before being tricked, drugged, and sold into slavery in the south.  McQueen is an auteur known for his honest and brutal direction, and he keeps filming when others would shut the camera off or look away. While making the picture that much more difficult to sit through, his steadfastness greatly elevates the emotional impact of the film. It's a must-see, if only for educational purposes—just as 'Schindler's List' is used to teach about the Holocaust and 'Milk' about the struggle for gay rights.   I'm not trying to compare the events depicted in this film with the events depicted in those I just mentioned, all I'm saying is that they are all equally important in portraying the reality of their respective situations. There is a moment in '12 Years a Slave' when, as a form of punishment, Northup is hanged by his neck, the tips of his toes just able to reach the ground below him. The camera stays on him for a few minutes. It is silent, and all you can do is listen to him struggling for breath.   This is one of the more disturbing moments in the film, but not the worst. Eventually, Northup is sold to Edwin Epps, a short-tempered and impulsive plantation owner portrayed by Michael Fassbender. He is by far the most villainous and terrifying character in the film, and Fassbender brilliantly captures his mood swings and tempestuous personality.   It is Chiwetel Ejiofor, however, who steals the show. He brings so much life to Northup, and completely disappears into his characters. He is able to depict so many deep levels of emotion, while also bringing dignity to a man who was unwilling to let anyone take away his will to "live" rather than just "survive." Additionally, Lupita Nyong'o, in her first big film role, is mesmerizing as Patsey, and hardworking and desperate woman, and the object of her master Epps's attention. She is hated by Epps's wife—masterfully played by Sarah Paulson— and most of the more dramatic moments in the film revolve around her character's tragic story.   If I have one complaint, it's that 12 years do not seem to pass by at all, mainly because none of the characters substantially age. Also, Brad Pitt is thrown in for ten minutes to depict a kind-hearted abolitionist, and while he does a good job, it just feels like Brad Pitt on a slave plantation, which is totally out of place.   Regardless, while the film may be harrowing and difficult to sit through, it is simply brilliant all the way through, and by far the most honest depiction of slavery that I've ever seen.I'm really going to be the exception here and pan this film. I was no non-plussed about it that I can barely be bothered to review it properly. The amount of dead space (for example a 75 second scene showing Soloman just looking at the scenery) was astonishing - any other director would have dealt with the subject matter in about 30 minutes. Both my girlfriend and I were close to walking out with the boredom.  But we didn't because we were expecting the stage to be set for a finale whereby through complex legal machinations, the injustice is uncovered and Soloman is reunited with his family. So what complex genius might effect his release? He writes a letter to a friend! A LETTER! Genius - amazed he could devise such a complex solution given a mere 12 years! So once reunited, will we be treated to the legal wranglings to ensure this can't happen again and that those responsible are brought to justice? Nope.  So, basically, man gets kidnapped, lives as a slave working for three different "Masters", witnesses hard work and unfair treatment of slaves including murder and rape, and eventually gets to go home after writing a letter to a friend who comes and picks him up. Hardly noteworthy at all, and in my worst five films of all time.Let me start off by saying that I like a good movie based on a true story like Schindler's List, The Butler, A Beautiful Mind, We Bought A Zoo, etc., etc. I'm also fully aware that not all events will be entirely factual so when I went into this movie I wasn't going in expecting accuracy in any form. What I did go in expecting was a good performance by great actors and I must say the acting was fantastic, but unfortunately the rest of the film was a complete train wreck. I felt it had potential at first and then that feeling quickly dissipated after watching the first beating commence and continued to diminish after seeing the attempted hanging where he walked around on his toes for at least a good twenty to thirty seconds and we had to sit and watch. I didn't think it was possible for the movie to get more boring but then they threw in yet another thirty second scene where we all proceeded to stare at the main character's face while he sat idle, occasionally moving his head from side to side. I wanted to feel emotion for these poor characters but every emotion that I had was quickly ruined by incredibly long, drawn out, and unnecessary scenes. Not only did I have to sit through the agonizing, stretched out scenes but whenever there was about to be a significant lapse of time within the main character's life they'd add in a bonus five to seven seconds where we stared at a bunch of trees. I'd like to say that I was moved by the movie or felt some sort of enjoyment in watching it but in truth the only touching moment I truly had was at the end of the film when I realized it was FINALLY over. I'd liken it's boringness to The Fifth Estate but honestly it was far worse. My advice to you would be to ignore the plethora of ten star reviews and think twice before you decide to pick it up for movie rental once it finally comes out on DVD.12 Years a Slave — a biopic about a black fiddler in NY who somehow wound up a slave in Louisiana from 1841 until the law rescued him in 1853—is the nearly universally acclaimed front runner for the Best Picture Oscar. Yet it's built upon a fourth-rate screenplay that might have embarrassed Horatio Alger.  12 Years a Slave is hailed by critics as a long-awaited breakthrough that finally dares to mention the subject of slavery after decades of the entertainment industry being controlled by the South.  The message behind the ongoing enshrinement of the rather amateurish 12 Years a Slave is that the cultural whippings of white folk for the sins of their long dead ancestors will stubbornly continue on until morale improves. The formula: Stoke it, package it, market it.  Steve McQueen directs the film in a sort of minor league Passion of the Christ manner. Some of the appeal to critics is that Northern whites are shown as saints of racial sensitivity in the film's preposterous first 20 minutes.  12 Years a Slave opens in 1841 with Northup being effusively admired by his white neighbors in Saratoga, NY. Northup is a model of ridiculous bourgeois respectability, always doffing his top hat to his white peers while out riding with his family in an elegant carriage.  How could he afford that? Well, actually, he didn't and couldn't. A glance at Northup's ghostwritten 1853 memoir makes clear that in 1841, rather than being a pillar of this Yankee community, he was an unemployed fiddler dragged down by his own "shiftlessness."  In McQueen's often baffling movie, this respectable family man suddenly decides to run off to join the circus with two fast-talking white men without even leaving a note for his wife. Later, while dining in an elegant Washington, DC restaurant with his new friends, he suddenly takes ill and wakes up in chains.  Ironically, his poor family never reported or even guessed that he'd been kidnapped. They apparently assumed that vanishing was just the kind of thing he'd do.  When word of his kidnapping finally arrived home in 1853, top officials in both NY and Louisiana were dismayed by the trick played upon this freeborn citizen and worked together to quickly have him released.  Interestingly, it was widely believed that Northup had conspired with his white cronies to defraud slave owners of their purchase price by attempting to pull a con on them. Reminiscent of the 1971 comedy Skin Game, starring James Garner and Louis Gossett, Jr. as traveling grifters in 1858 where Garner repeatedly sells Gossett into slavery and then helps him escape.  Northup's hometown newspaper, the Saratoga Press, surmised that Northup had been an accomplice in a scam gone awry:  "it is more than suspected that Northup was an accomplice in the sale, calculating to slip away and share the spoils, but that the purchaser was too sharp for him, and instead of getting the cash, he got something else."  This theory that Northup was a man of dubious character rather than the tediously upright one depicted in the movie might explain another puzzling aspect of his tale: how little help he got from his fellow slaves. In general, the other slaves as display remarkably little human warmth toward Northup. They mostly act completely indifferent whenever he is around.  When Northup finally arrived home, an abolitionist politician hired David Wilson to be his ghostwriter. Wilson wrote Northup's story in his own style, and they hit it big in the slave-narrative craze that followed the 1852 publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Not many were sold, but more than enough to launch Northup on the abolitionist lecture circuit.  Predictably, Northup disappeared from history four years later. Those who knew him best seem to have assumed that he had become a "worthless vagabond," as his wife's obituary bluntly phrased it. Almost all of this is left out of the movie as being far too interesting for Oscar Bait.  I suppose Third-rate Victorian literature such as Wilson's version of Northup's memoir is tolerable today if the author understands his limitations. Most of the first-person narration is thankfully utilitarian. Only occasionally does Wilson have Northup reminisce in the grand Victorian manner: "Now had I approached within the shadow of the cloud, into the thick darkness whereof I was soon to disappear, thenceforward to be hidden from the eyes of all my kindred, and shut out from the sweet light of liberty, for many a weary year."  Indeed, on the rare occasions when Wilson quotes Northup's utterances, the slave speaks in a more plausible fashion, such as, "There is nobody I want to write to, 'cause I ain't got no friends living as I know of."  Unfortunately, Ridley's adaptation takes its inspiration for its made-up dialog from the worst prose in the book. Since it would be racist for Ridley to show slaves ending their sentences with prepositions, they instead orate pompous speeches toward each other, like Prime Minister Gladstone addressing Queen Victoria. As the hero, Ejiofor labors to bring life to these lines, with indifferent, if not comical success.  Hollywood has been waving its celluloid wand over history since its inception. Unfortunately, studio contrived "reality" usually wins the emotional battle over the truth --even for those with more than a tenuous understanding of the world around them. It's all part of the ongoing, and successful campaign keep all critical theory groups in their respective consensus trances; instilling grievance focused identities in blacks, and derivative guilt syndrome in whites. I suppose once all the altruistic white people who fall for sympathetic pleas of universal equality have been eliminated via natural selection, blacks will spontaneously adopt their innate, but perpetually oppressed Western sensibilities and go on to build flourishing, first world Utopias?   Coming soon to a theater near you!Before I started reading reviews on IMDb I actually thought the cinema was a form of entertainment. Now I realise I was totally wrong. A silly comedy like "Meet the Fockers" or" Legally Blonde" is condemned as a complete waste of time."I want my life back" But a film lasting two and a half hours which shows a man kidnapped into slavery,beaten half to death and then rescued is considered worthy of 5 stars. If I had gone to the cinema alone I would have left after 15 minutes.What sort of people can enjoy watching other people being beaten senseless for two and a half hours.The only thing that kept me awake was the hope that the slaves would rise up and cut those nasty white throats.No such luck.The slave was rescued.A weak ending to to a weak pointless film.Why Do We Watch Movies?  We watch movies to be entertained, to be educated, to be moved.  My husband and I recently went to see "12 Years a Slave". It was, quite bluntly, dreadful.   The movie was based on the personal accounting of Solomon Northup, a free black man, who in 1841 was abducted and sold into slavery. I did not read his book, but judging by what I have read, the movie did not follow the book very loyally. What a shame. I think I will read it now, if only to redeem a story so deserving to be told.  I do not profess to be a producer, a director, an actor, or a cinematographer. I do not presume to state how this film could have been better. I just want to tell you why I did not like what could have been one of the best movies of all time. I am a middle-aged, white, Canadian woman, and it is a testament to our society that I actually have to qualify that. I am so grateful to not have lived in an age of slavery. No man has the right to enslave another, and to have lived in an era where one race habitually and acceptably treated another as less than human would have been excruciatingly abhorrent to me. Slavery is wrong. Slavery is evil.  I have no doubt that many aspects of slavery in the 1840's were accurately depicted in this film, and it truly had all the elements of a classic, with a compellingly profound story and phenomenal actors. However, the direction was horrendous, the screen writing decimating. The protracted, paralyzingly boring close-ups and shots of gazing at trees were not evocative or artful, but only served to sap the life from the story for me. Added to that, the excessively prolonged moments of having to watch Solomon tap-dancing at the end of a noose, and the constant, brutal whipping scenes made my feelings of pity and disgust and rage almost dulled to the horror.   The cinematography could have been so much better. Settings are characters unto themselves in movies, and instead of bringing to life a Louisiana in the 1840's, I was treated to long minutes of Spanish moss waving in the breeze. It was dull and lack-luster, and added nothing to the film.  The only reason I gave this movie two stars instead of one (zero not being an option here) is because of the memorable performance of some of the actors.  Chiwetel Ejiofor's depiction of Solomon was excellent, considering what he was given to work with. The screenwriter's stripping treatment of who Solomon really was was very unfortunate. From what I understand, he was intelligent and resourceful, used his ingenuity to enhance the lives of his fellow slaves, and was actually forced to be a slave-driver himself for a portion of his enslavement. Including this in the screenplay might have given his character much more dimension, and shown me a man who I could actually root for, instead of just pity immensely.  Lupita Nyong'o was extraordinary as the young slave, Patsey, and is an actress to be watched for in future.  Michael Fassbender is always brilliant, even in crappy movies. This performance was no exception. He was evil incarnate, and made me suspect that Master Epps very likely had syphilis, so crazed and bizarre was he portrayed.  Paul Giamatti does sleaze so well, and here he did not disappoint.  It must be noted that I was downright embarrassed that Brad Pitt as producer cast himself in the role of the big white hero, his acting no better or worse than usual.  Perhaps the best performance was that of Paul Dano. As a white-trash overseer with middle-management power and impotent rage, he made me believe what these men might truly have been like in the times of American slavery.  How sad I am that this movie was not all it could have been. In the end, did it make me think? Yes, but for all the wrong reasons. Was I entertained, educated or moved? Sadly, I was not.I've been in the industry for almost 20 years and I had to create an account to say this: This movie was bad. This was a bad movie. This script should have never seen a screen the way it stands. I don't know if Steve McQueen or someone else screwed with it so much that it no longer worked, but someone murdered this script.  Characters appear and disappear for no reason. Plot lines are thrown in, rolled around and pulled out. Then there is the miracle ending that's not foreshadowed in any way - a total Hail Mary - like the producers suddenly said: 'Yo, Stevie, you're sitting at over 2 hours... End the thing already before we run out of cash.' Ugh... Never have God (or his human counterpart, Brad Pitt) save your movie in the last 10 minutes. That's first-year film school stuff.  I was hoping for a film like 2001's Conspiracy (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0266425/) but instead I got this. What a total shame. This story should have been a masterpiece. It should have been a classic.  The only reason I don't give this movie a 1 is because it is beautifully shot. It betrays a grade-school-level interpretation of history (Northerners were beautiful and cultured while Southerners were drunk whore-mongers who rolled around with pigs), but at least it was nice to look at.Considering the social and economic importance of slavery in America's history, the scarcity of serious films depicting the daily life of slaves in the Confederate States is significant - especially since the after-effects from this shameful episode still echo through the culture. '12 Years a Slave' is based upon the memoirs of Solomon Northup, who endured a hellish period of enslavement in Louisiana, which is backed up by legal records.  The story begins with him living with wife and children in upstate New York as a free man and respected member of his community. After being lured to Washington by a couple of con-artists who promised him work, he was subsequently drugged, locked in chains, viciously beaten, stripped of his identity and shipped to New Orleans to be sold into slavery. Over the next twelve years, he was owned by two men who treated him in contrasting ways. The first was a relatively civilized fellow, but the plantation's half-witted manager was threatened by Northup's superior intelligence. Their mutual dislike produced a dangerously volatile situation, and unwilling to lose his investment, Northup's owner re-sold him to a neighbor. This unbalanced individual regarded his slaves as property to be used for pleasure and profit, which caused them to live in perpetual fear that his capricious moods would flare into sadistic lust or rage at any moment.  It's noteworthy that a British director has become one of the few filmmakers to delve deeply into this subject, and the combination of John Ridley's powerful script and McQueen's directorial skills has inspired exceptional performances from the entire cast. Their dramatization of Northup's experiences is both riveting and uncomfortable to watch, as the film depicts the perverse nature of a society that permitted such a barbaric system. Hopefully it will reach a large US audience, who will learn how a privileged Southern elite cruelly exploited their fellow humans in order to acquire greater wealth for themselves.I was shocked with this film. I ended up wondering what on earth the director had in mind when he was making the film? The sad thing is that the subject of the film is extremely interesting but the director lost all chances of making this a great film.  Slavery in America is a huge issue indeed and I do understand that the Caucasian people in the US still try to deal with the issue. And most of them feel guilt. It is more or less how most Germans feel for the atrocities that Hitler has done. BUT someone expects that a film on slavery from an acclaimed director will either go into the core of the problem and prompt you to learn and understand things or will present a human story in a way that can create a case for the issue.  This film is doing nothing. It wastes 134 minutes to tell a story that could be told in no more than 15 minutes. When you have a 15 minutes storytelling then you need either to focus on building a characters' film or to insert in the storytelling questions that the viewer should consider. But instead of this the film is wasting all the good actors in an endless cycle of the same idea: "what cruelty humans could cause to humans"!. But we DO KNOW this and we've seen it many times. Please make a point! The most hypocritical scene of the film is the Patsey's whip. Until that scene the film was boring, with this scene it became hypocritical because at that point I think that the director thought: "I can not do a film about slavery without showing a cruel scene; I've forgotten to do this so far, so I do it now"! I learn nothing from the film and I didn't entertain myself at all. I am wondering why all cinema critics have given such victorious reviews. I am sorry to say that I think that the film tries to capitalize on the "white people's guilty" and the director has blackmailed the audience by saying: "If you do not like it the film then you are just like the bad whites that they have done these things to the slaves". I am sorry Mr. director, this is not the case, YOU have exploited the issue of slavery to put money in your pocket. You have succeeded and congratulations on the marketing success, but this is a bad film and will remain like this!It's rare that a movie lives up to its hype, even rarer that the hype is transcended by the actual achievement. 12 YEARS A SLAVE does both. Aided by powerful performances and cinematography, director McQueen exposes the barbarity of dehumanisation, of treating people as property. Reviews focus on the brutality on display, and it's true that the film is not easy to watch, with its powerful juxtaposition of sublime scenery and human degradation. But to me the final scene is the most powerful of all: we are party to the kind of raw emotion that in the hands of lesser artists could easily descend into tawdriness or sentimentality. Here, as in the rest of the film, it is raised up high, as high as cinematic art can go.12 Years a Slave goes straight for the shock effect. Solomon, a supposedly sensitive, intelligent, kind violinist and family-man is captured to be shipped and sold as a slave. In roughly ten minutes the movie shows how good he had it and then how bad it becomes. Meaning you can almost do without anything that comes after that. People trick him with the promise he can play the violin in a circus, he wakes up in cuffs and is beaten relentlessly. He's sold several times. Meanwhile Solomon tries to distinguish himself from fellow slaves in a manner that isn't particularly sympathetic. He's whipped a lot, others are whipped a lot, some die and all is shown very explicitly. Then, in the last 15 minutes or so, Brad Pitt turns up and saves the day. That's basically the whole darn thing in a nutshell.   In my opinion the end seems sloppy and rushed. Secondly - and most importantly - the story line would've had more meaning to it, if it would've been portrayed with more subtlety and would've been less about going from one beating to the next. It gives the impression this movie is just to shock and provoke, instead of inciting any feelings, or thoughts. If you look at a film like "La Vita E Bella", you know even just hints can make one feel misery, heartbreak and despair much stronger than if you spell it out. When a film triggers our imagination, one feels moved and touched, with all the emotions belonging to a certain situation. Unless you want to numb the viewer, instead of getting him/her emotionally involved. In that case, this movie was perfect.I feel that a Best Picture Oscar winner should 1) be a film that you would recommend, and 2) be a film that you would watch again. "12 Years a Slave" is neither.  "12 Years a Slave" falls squarely in the torture-porn film genre like "Hostel" or "Passion of the Christ." So if you are into that kind of cinema, this may be a good film for you. If you like well-directed and well-written films with a strong narrative, plot, character development, sense of place, and historical context and meaning, then this film will disappoint you.  The last scene of the film when Solomon is reunited with his family is unbelievably bad but sums up the whole film: bad direction, bad writing, a big mistake and waste of acting talent.  For heavens sake, read the book and learn Solomon's story but avoid this disaster.BREAKPOINT1BREAKPOINT2BREAKPOINT3BREAKPOINT4BREAKPOINT5It's hard for me to review this film, as I have not seen a huge number of Indian films--probably no more than a couple dozen. Most of the ones I've seen were wonderfully entertaining but I am far from an expert on Bollywood. Because of this, I have a hard time knowing how good this film is relative to other films from this country. So, consider this when you read this review. This may be among the very best India has to offer or it just seems that way to me.  Like so many Indian films, this is a very, very long film--with a run-time of almost three hours. When a movie is bad or just okay, this can seem like forever, but since "3 Idiots" is a very, very good film I loved its length. And, like most films of the genre, it has its share of the usual singing and dancing so foreign to films from other countries. One thing you should know, however, is that defining the type of film it is isn't really easy. Much of it is a comedy, but it also has many poignant moments (keep the Kleenex nearby), some existential moments where they explore the meaning of life and work and it's also a tender film about friendship. And, as my daughter pointed out when she saw the film, she loved that the men in the movie are not afraid to cry--something you rarely see in western films.  As for the plot, it's very long and involved and I could recount what occurs. But I don't want to spoil a single wonderful moment, so my advice is just sit back and watch--and if you give it a chance, I can almost guarantee you'll have a great time with this poignant and funny film. Wonderful and well worth your time--with a delightful script, wonderful characters and lots of moments that made me smile...and a few that brought me to tears. See this film.I asked my co-workers to recommend a Bollywood movie. I expected "Dumb and Dumber" by the title. It wasn't that at all. It is more of an inspirational comedy with some serious but good messages. A more accurate title would have been "The Legend of Rancho".  Odd to me is that they speak in part English, part Hindi through the movie, kinda like some speak "Spanglish" here I suppose. I know none of the actors but the acting was good, and there was plenty of humor. The characters were believable. Most movie dancing I find a little silly but I even liked the dancing routines in the bathroom.  I will be asking my co-workers for more recommendations after this one!As many ordinary Chinese high school students,who have to study fourteen(14) hours every day for the college entrance examination in the final year,I was entirely shaken and moved by "3 idiots",sharing the same feeling with all the students from high schools and universities in China(or Asia). O(∩_∩)O Compared with mainland China,India is lucky,having less corruption in education system.  This film is incredible inspiring,especially for those who are struggling or "survived" in high schools and colleges.  I read some reviewer,some doubt whether suicide in the film is logical,which is really DISAPPOINTING! (—__—!)  If you experience the life in poverty areas in Asia,you will understand what a significant role the higher educations play in their lives. Burdening great pressure from family and society,they attach great expectation and significance to the enrollment of colleges,and they intend to abandon poverty by getting higher education.Diploma means everything for them. Thus,the plot where the man committed suicide after lost the chance to graduate is reasonable.Awesome film man. Saw this with my family in a theatre. Worth every penny n worth every minute. Never seen such an amazing film.
Its about the pursuit of happiness. 
What is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. The last 30 mins were beautifully shot. Very good direction by Hirani. The star cast is good n Aamir khan steals the show. This guy is the best thing to happen to Bollywood. The editing is top notch. U don't feel bore for even a sec. Awesome screenplay. It's hands down the best film in the history of Bollywood.This is the very first time i write a review, mostly because I'm very lazy.  However I just watched this film and i gotta admit it...  I loved it!!!!  At first i was like well "lets see what this movie has to offer"  (btw its also the first Indian movie I've ever seen) and I was like okay  its funny and then... like wow so thoughtful and reflexive! It really  made me meditate about my career and my real dreams! Its a very good  movie! I'll recommend it to all my friends!  You must watch it!  All is Well!"Whatever the problem in life is... just say to yourself 'Aal Izz Well'.. This wont solve your problems but it will give the courage to face it.." "Chase Excellence and success will follow".. " Life is not about getting marks, grades but chasing your dreams".. These are the golden rules which 3 IDIOTS teaches you in a very light and entertaining way.. The movie makes you laugh and in the process you learn many golden rules which can alter your life in a big manner...  3 actors from the path-breaking blockbuster RANG DE BASANTI( Aamir, Sharman, Madhvan) team up together with Rajkumar Hirani.. It couldn't get bigger! Loosely based on blockbuster novel ' Five Point Someone ' by Chetan Bhagat the movie deals with the present education system in India that whether getting more marks and better grades is better than gaining knowledge and is mugging up everything more useful than understanding it..  The movie has many hilarious scenes and everyone in the film form Aamir to Boman Irani to Omi Vaidya were superb in their roles.. Aamir has outdone himself.. Never in the film he has looked 44 year old... Film's music sounds mediocre but when viewed on the screen then the music sounds perfect.. Cinematography is awesome and so is the direction.. Raju Hirani's screenplay(you can easily ignore a few loose points) is a masterpiece and the film will achieve cult status for engineering students in a short period of time.. It has the soul which Five Point Someone had.. It is easily Aamir Khan's finest film to date.. The film's climax is fantabulous and is a shocker.. It takes everyone by surprise...  To conclude 3 IDIOTS has the potential to break all records and sweep all awards.. Watch it... You will Love it...  My Rating: 9/10  Thanks and RegardsI'm an IITian myself and hence, needless to say, was looking forward to this movie as it is based on the life in IITs. I went with my family and watched the first-day-first-show and was I pleased ? In one sentence - The best Bollywood movie ever ! If you are into movies, then this one is not to be missed unless you are the 4th idiot. I cried, I laughed and I enjoyed every moment of the 3 hours that I spent watching this gem. The songs that seemed mediocre before watching the movie, feel like perfect for the movie. They are so ideal for the situations that I just loved them.  As you can understand, they could not bring the name of any IIT into the movie to avoid disputes. But trust me, whatever they have shown about the life in IITs, it's all true. Right from suicides, cold-hearted Professors to lack of encouragement and support for talents who can really bring serious change in this world. The movie successfully depicts how once inside, your life is only about meaningless grades, go get into the race before it's too late.  Take my free advice and avoid any reviews or words from people who have already seen the movie. Don't let anyone spoil any scene from the movie. Rush to the nearest theater and experience the phenomenon for yourself. You'll bless me for this advice !"All is well," the three "idiot" heroes of 3 Idiots recite when they become frazzled or nervous, while frantically tapping their hearts. They know that reciting the oversimplifying phrase will not provide their problems with a solution, or even a catalyst, but it gives them the onset courage they desperately need at a time of uncertainty and despair. One character even tries to use the line after an amateurishly-given birth may have gone terribly wrong. It's times like that when the saying may not be so effective, even if its goal is not to provide certain relief.  But all is well, as they so often say. Rajkumar Hirani's 3 Idiots, my introduction to the world of Bollywood cinema, is a comedy-drama unlike any one I've ever seen, long, but never drawn out, frantic, but never desperate, and emotional, but never manipulating. It provides us with three of the most likable characters of the last decade, and with insight to the culture of Indians and their parents. Rarely has a comedy had this big of a brain in its head and a canvas of opportunities in mind, while possessing a title not even fit for a farce.  Our title characters are ambitious but stunted Farhan Qureshi (R. Madhavan), jittery, fearful Raju Rastogi (Sharman Joshi), and borderline prodigy Ranchhoddas "Rancho" Shamaldas Chhanchad (Aamir Khan), three close friends who attend the Imperial College of Engineering (ICE), one of India's most prestigious colleges where only the best are accepted. The young boys already are facing some of life's greatest challenges, all of them pursuing the field of engineering when the only one who seems to have a passion for the material is Rancho. Farhan was forced to become skilled in the field because of his strict father, and Raju is pursuing the field with the goal of getting his family out of poverty, with his father's expensive health bills, his mother's fragile core, and his sister's inability to marry all on the table. Rancho is studying because he feels that one should pursue passion and make a career out of it, so it doesn't feel like work. If you're passionate and devoted to your work, success will find you - yet this is only one of the countless morals and insights 3 Idiots provide its viewer with.  The film chronicles their issues in college in flashback, with instances in the presence popping up to show Farhan and Raju searching for their pal Rancho, who has disappeared and avoided contact for several years now. This is not your typical flashback film, however. It uses this method much to its advantage, and doesn't feel like a narrative within a narrative. It seals both stories nicely, but it takes the viewer on a roller-coaster ride of emotions through carefully constructed events before it even arrives at those endings.  One of their problems in college is the professor/dean of the campus, Viru Sahastrabuddhe (Boman Irani), who the three derogatorily call "Virus" when his back is turned. Virus is strict and often largely unsympathetic to the problems of his students, which allows the film to explore a dark topic one assumes a comedy wouldn't dare cross paths with and that is the issue of Indian teen suicide. One kid had his father have a stroke, rendering him unable to focus on academics for months, falling gravely behind. Virus is grossly unsympathetic to his case, denying him an extension on a project he's work so unrealistically hard on but can not perfect.  If anything, we can say 3 Idiots is a message to the parents of the Indian youth and that is to stop applying pressure to an already stressed out demographic. I've read several articles articulating the point that Indian teenagers are among one of the highest in suicide rates, and that many parents put an unrealistic amount of pressure, duty, and responsibility on the child to the point of a physical and mental collapse. You're given the unalienable freedom to raise your kids with the method you choose, but not every method is perfect, and when your method is one of the ones that leads to suicide, mental health problems, and perpetuates fear and anxiety in the minds of teenagers, then you may want to reevaluate your methods.  3 Idiots also provides us with the idea that many Indian children are told what to become in life early and are discouraged from exploration or even personal ambition. This I can't believe. What an unhappy, uninspiring, completely wasted life to slog through everyday doing something you loathe all because it was the lucky career choice of your parents. Yet I'm sure millions have been lead through this same life. It's the worst way of "living through a person" that I can imagine.  The film runs ten minutes shy of three hours, which for few viewers may seem too long and uncomfortable. I was skeptical myself walking in rather blind. Almost every Bollywood film I've conducted research on seems to run an upwards of three hours, some extending and testing the waters to roughly five hours. If other Bollywood works have characters drawn along the same lines of being relatable, human, and easily accessible and not biased towards race or social class, I can't see it being a struggle to get through any of the industry's films.  Through every quick-witted song and dance number, through every comedic scene, through every instance of dramatic despair, emotionally alive moment, solemnly poignant sequence, suspenseful setup, to a lovely, heartfelt conclusion, 3 Idiots is a wonderful, invaluable endeavor in the world of film. Its actors are beautifully fitting for their roles, assisted by a script so human and true to life that it is honestly hard to believe, and captured through beautifully alive cinematography to collectively give us a beautiful package not just in the figurative sense. This is arguably one of the best comedies I've ever seen.I was lucky to see the first day show of 3 idiots on Thursday in Dubai. Well the title of this post says it all. The movie is an example of classic film making. brilliant and highly entertaining.  Watch 3 idiots for a) amir khan's incredible acting b) intelligent and highly energatic screenplay & direction (Rajkumar Hirani has done it yet again!) c) amazing chemistry among actors, d) some of the best comedy scenes coming from Indian cinema in a long time and e) a heart warming story which keeps you spell binded right till the end.  I would rate it as among the best from amir khan (which obviously means among the very best from bollywood. I would also give a lot of credit to the director rajkumar hirani, who after this movie (and his previous munna bhai series) should rank as among the top in bollywood too. 9/10.Plot Two idiots Farhan (Madhavan) and Raju (Sharman) sets outs on a journey to find their lost friend and the 3rd idiot Rancho (Aamir).. As the journey starts off, their college life and old memories of their friendship, with a unique free-thinker Rancho who inspired them and changed their lives, are unfolded through flashbacks and followed with some twists and turns...  My Views 3 Idiots looks at our educational system which pressurizes the students and does not allow to chose his destination by his own wish, in a satirical way and brings out some of the flaws in it... On parallel there is a love angle between Rancho and Pia (Kareena)... Many of the situations/characters have resemblance or inspiration to "Five Point Someone", blockbuster novel penned by Chetan Bhagat...  Both humour and emotional quotients are amalgamated in the right proportion, full credits to Raju for that... Film offers lots of quality rib-tickling moments throughout.. The intermission point offers a twist that is totally out of the blue and keeps you hooked to the movie ! Just when you think this feel-good comic caper is leading to its culmination, there is another surprising element at the climax which is brilliantly weaved out by Hirani...  Technically, it rocks with astounding and visually arresting cinematography, the aerial shots of Shimla and Ladakh are a pleasant treat for our eyes... Editing was good... Song visualizations were cool... Music was good and well placed with the flow of the narration...  Coming to performances, all of them comes out with convincing portrayals, but it is Aamir Khan, the real showman of Bollywood, steals the shows with yet another stellar portrayal and will go down as one of his best performances. His looks and mannerisms as a college student was genuine and consummate.. Madhavan and Sharman adds up with commendable performances... Kareena does her part well... Among the supporting, Boman Irani as the eccentric head of the institution was too good...  On the downside, there are some unbelievable filmy situations which can be excused as writer's liberty and the episode of Mona's delivery was a bit far stretched.. Still these minor negatives does not affect this wholesome entertainer ! In short the basic theme of the movie is that "chase excellence and success will follow".. Just like that Aamir and Raju has chased excellence and success is following them...  So to sum up, Aamir and Hirani has delivered the best movie of 2009... Do yourself a favour by seeing this highly emotional and feel good comic entertainer...  Verdict : THE BEST of 2009 ! Rating : 9/10  for more reviews of the latest Indian movies, visit www.snehasallapam.comTo be brief, THIS IS THE BEST Indian MOVIE EVER CREATED..... I know it is old but I just heard about it recently so I watched it yesterday. I think this movie should be one of the best 250 films in history on IMDb rating. I rated it 10/10 and believe me it worth more than this. I don't want to make spoilers in my review so that you will enjoy every minute of the movie. This movie is 2:44 hours length full of laughter, joy, tears, drama and passion. And of course, the most interesting part of the movie is GENIALITY. I loved every moment of this movie. and I hope to watch a lot of future Indian movies like this. I'm also waiting for Ferrari Ki sawari movie to watch. It is starred by one of the 3 idiots.   Thank you India for giving us this brilliant movie.I'm from the Philippines. For years, I have always been curious about Indian cinema. I've seen clips of Indian films on cable TV and to be honest...I just don't get it. I don't get all the silly dancing and singing in almost all movies. I find it so corny and irrelevant to the story. But don't get me wrong, Philippine movies back in the 80's were also filled with corny singing and dancing. But we have gone past those and transitioned into movie-making based on good scripts...rather than cheesy story lines.   When a friend of mine recommended this movie, I haven't really heard of it. I thought it was a Hollywood release but it wasn't. It was a Bollywood movie. He said it was really funny, so out of curiosity, I got hold of a copy.   My first thought was that it was nothing but a silly story of 3 guys doing slapstick comedy that I have all seen before. When they started singing "All iz well.." I told myself... I knew it! Just what I thought.  But as the movie progressed...I was amazed at the intelligence embedded in this movie. I was so impressed with the smart dialogues delivered by Amir Khan. It was so mature and thought-provoking. The life crisis all of them were in... the pressures at school..the pressures from society and the pressures from family as well... they rang so true. I was even at one time crying my heart out. I can't believe it! All the preconceived notions about a Bollywood movie were obliterated. I was so moved by this picture and I have no regrets seeing it.I saw the paid premiere of 3 idiots today.On the whole, 3 idiots is a winner all the way everythingwise.3 idiots suits the term 'landmark cinema' and has all it takes to help Bollywood take a giant step into world cinema with pride.3 idiots is a sparkling example of qualitative cinema.3 idiots not only entertains, it also enlightens.3 idiots is forward-thinking, but also makes you recall your roots. It promises lots of laughs and also a heartwarming message.There are movies aplenty, but very few remain etched in your memory and possess recall value. 3 idiots is one of those films. Indisputably and undeniably, this Aamir-Madhavan-Sharman outing is worth the price of the ticket and more.The film will set new records and has the merits to emerge one of the biggest hits of all times. The weekend business should be historic, the Week 1 business should be unparalleled, the lifetime gross should be amongst the biggest of all times. In short, 3 idiots has 'Blockbuster' written all over it.The story of 3 idiots has been told differently and most importantly, the story offers so many twists-n-turns that you just can't guess what would unfold next.There's so much happening in every scene and the screenplay is so gripping that you don't feel the need to look at the auditorium ceiling or at your watch at brief intervals. You aren't restless. 3 idiots demonstrates how strong film-making can enhance and elevate an already solid concept.An Aamir Khan film is nothing short of an event. The supremely talented actor acts in one film a year and no two films are ever identical in terms of plot line.To sum up, 3 idiots is commercial Hindi cinema at its best. The film has 'Hit' written all over it. Let me put it this way: Cancel whatever you're doing today and go watch 3 idiots instead.Director Rajkumar Hirani strikes a fine balance between humor and emotions. The comic portions are executed with panache, the drama is attention-grabbing and the emotional quotient is strong enough to turn you moist-eyed. The marriage of humor and emotions as also technique and content is what drives 3 idiots to the winning post.We saw a sneak preview of 3 Idiots last night at Globus Cinema in Bandra, Mumbai.  Brilliant. Simply, brilliant.  Simple but articulate story telling laced with lots of humour and lessons from life. A wonderful experience to watch as every single actor from Sharman, Madhavan, Boman, Kareena & Aamir deliver probably the best performance in a movie this year.  Sharman & Madhavan start off on a journey to seek out their friend Rancho. Together they were the 3 Idiots in college. And they take us the viewers with them on this beautiful journey with such warmth, panache, humour and love, that we don't want the journey to end.  Sharman really shows why he's one actor to watch out for. His acting genes come through in every single scene. He's perfect in his role. Sharman, you rock!  Madhavan as the guy who's chasing his father's dreams rather than his own is wonderful. The character who learns to laugh at life and it's ironies thanks to his friend Rancho. Madhavan shows his humorous side brilliantly savoring every scene and making it a pleasure to watch. His narration of the movie is very good.  Boman Irani is probably the one actor we take most for granted just because he's so brilliant! His characterization of the control-crazy, hyper-active, hyper-competitive, almost dictator-ish, college principal, is beyond words. He plays it so so well, that you love to hate him. He's that Good.  Kareena comes through in this movie as one of the finest actresses we have. No one else could have played her part and also looked so beautiful at the same time.  And now take it from a hard core Amitabh Bachchan fan, Aamir Khan is the best actor in town today after AB. Period.  His range is phenomenal and his characterization of 'Rancho' in this movie is positively brilliant. The small mannerisms, the walk, the smile, the attitude, the brilliance of a young person who's not restricted by the educational system, his positive attitude towards every thing in life, it's Rancho you are looking at. Not Aamir.   Aamir's ability to transform himself convincingly from the super-huge well-built temporary amnesia patient on a revenge spree in Ghajini to this whacked out college student, which is half the age he played in last movie shows his prowess as a master actor to transcend age barriers to play almost every role in the book.  This is THE best movie of 2009. Aamir again reigns supreme. Thank you Raju Hirani & Vidhu Vinod Chopra.  Cliché word, but I have to use it - FANTASTIC !! 10/10   P.S. Don't forget to say 'Aal Izz Well'Aamir does it again. what a movie .from start to the end, hilarious moments.screenplay is fantastic. full on comedy and yet it never looses its heart. Aamir pulls off a 22 year old character with brilliance. never for once you feel you are watching aamir .It was rancho on screen. sharman n madhavan - i bow down to them. music looks OK on cd but during movie it worked as a plus point. situational tracks works in the favour of film. runtime may sound a bit too much but believe me, you wont know when the first half is over. second half may seem a bit too hilarious but apart from that its a masterpiece. gr8 aamir ,another brilliant movie.10/10Yesterday i watched 3 I.D.I.O.TS(I Do it On My terms)the most entertaining and simply the best movie of this decade after RDB. a movie with a message(chase excellence success will follow)without loosing its sense of humor,a movie about friendship and love,a movie about flawed education system, a movie about unhealthy competition.  this movie is team work ,every one does its part very well. Aamir (what a actor he is!!!)is excellent as Rancho ,Madhavan and Sharman are perfectly in sync(watch both of them in drunk scene), Kareena is OK,Boman played director's character as good as it was possible,Omi was top notch (watch Chamatkar \Balatkar scene),  But whenever the team wins credit goes to captain,and here the captain is Rajkumar hirani.He gave 'Jaadu Ki Jhappi 'in MB,'Gandhigiri' in LRMB and now he says 'ALL IZZ WELL' and believe me he is 100% right.  Dialogues: Witty with humor and to the point, Chamatkar \Balatkar scene is one of the best comic scenes .   Music: Shantanu Moitra's music also have a role in the movie,all the songs come alive on the screen,(watch Zoobie-Doobie and Aal Izz Well)  FINAL WORDS: its like a marriage between RDB and Lage Raho Munnabhai. no doubt there is some MASALA but we indians like it . Rating: FIVE POINT SOMETHING OUT OF FIVE.  Don't BE A STUPID BE AN I.D.I.O.T. ! must watch.This is the first Bollywood movie I have seen. (I don't know if "Slum dog millionaire" is also an Indian movie or not.) I have learned from my parents long ago that Indian movies are excellent and full of dance scenes. They watched quite a few Indian movies when they were youngsters.  Then I had my first experience of watching a Bollywood movie quiet by accident. It was during the sports meet held by the school in which I teach English. I was appointed to do some work using the computer, which we would run some movies when we were free. And the first movie was "3 Idiots." I don't know who picked the movie. To be honest, I never would have picked this one myself because of its stupid Chinese title, which, translated back into English, is "3 idiots who make scenes in Bollywood".   I expected to see a movie that was funny from beginning to end and that could be enjoyed without your brain working too hard. It turned out to be way more than that. It's a movie that made me laugh uncontrollably at some points, shed tears at other points and think all the time.  It's about friendship, dream, love and college education. I think the best part is about college education. The situation depicted in the film is almost the same as in China. As a teacher in a high school in China, I know exactly what problems we have in education. What shows in the movie is exactly what happens in China right now. We attach so much importance to grades that teachers and parents will do anything to improve their study, which causes a lot of students' losing interest in study. I recommend all Chinese educators see this movie. I myself have watched it for at least 6 times, including those times I watched it in my class with my students.  I give it a ten.I missed it during the 2010 Hong Kong International Film Festival and am really glad it is released publicly.  Haven't seen such a feel good movie for a long time. Excellent and inspiring plot with very positive messages and many hilarious scenes.  Inspiring messages and witty lines are dotted throughout the movie, intertwined with some teary scenes: all is well if you follow your passion; chase excellence and success will follow; be brave and follow your dream; think outside the box and be flexible.  It challenges our current values on education and success – that we should learn for the sake of learning but not for grades or what others want us to do. What's the point if you memorize everything but do not understand what it means and do not know how to put what you have learned into application? What an inspiring movie. It challenges your comfort thinking mode and urge you to be yourself and chase your dream/passion.  Excellent acting, colorful and typical Bollywood musical scenes with uplifting songs and dance moves, not to mention the soothing natural scenery interspersed in the moving episodes of friendship, love, family and playful/stressful campus life.  Every student, teacher, and parent or anyone who cares about our future should see it. What kind of world do we want to live in? What kind of person do we want our next generation to be? What kind of lives do we want to lead? This movie makes us ponder on these.  Somehow the movie echoed Steve Job's quotes : "Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma—which is living with the results of other people's thinking." "Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart." Both Steve and the Rancho character (Aamir Khan) are smart and creative, nice and helpful to friends and people who are willing to learn. They are true to their feelings. They dare to challenge authority and encourages others to do the same. We need more people like these in this world.  Just go see it. You won't regret it.When I was looking through IMDb's Top 250 movie list and saw a movie called "3 Idiots", I was surprised. Why would a movie with such a bad title be voted so highly? I went in thinking this would be India's version of Animal House or American Pie. But after watching the film, I was in love! It is so much more than the usual college story of young guys getting drunk, flunking classes, and getting back at their superiors. It is an extremely well-made film about doing what you love and facing your fears. The acting is incredible by the ensemble cast. The script is funny and poignant at the same time. Even the scenery is breathtaking. Although the length of the film is pretty long and has some quirky musical numbers, 3 Idiots is a delight. It is worth the watch!As you can see, I'm a huge movie buff. However, my scope is strictly limited to English-speaking movies. In other words, I have scruples watching foreign movies in subtitles. Nevertheless, I'm completely in the state of idleness for the whole summer. What's even worse, I've run out of American movies to watch since I've basically watched every movie that suits my palate. A friend of mine hugely recommended this Indian movie for me to watch. I was completely reluctant in the beginning to say the least. The title sounds like a Jim-Carrey-parody-like comedy which nothing in it can be literally taken serious. On account of my preference for serious movies, I tend to ignore those "silly" comedies. However, my friend's non-stop imploring drove me nuts. To humor him, I decided to give the movie a try.  The beginning was kinda within my expectation. Two goofy "idiots" started to turn the world around them upside down by extremely over-the- top actions(stopping a flight, hitchhiking a limousine), they reached an observatory of The Imperial College of Engineering, aka ICE, their alma mater, to meet a friend they've lost contact for six years. Only to find another classmate, Chatur, who started to boast himself for his success over some guy named Rancho. Until then, I was feeling this movie was no different than any other comedies. However, the following sequences kicked in and I was completely blown away. It all started with a magnificent melody that unveiled the main storyline.  The main character, Rancho, was a guy who was enrolled in ICE. However, he was totally different than any other students. Instead of studying by rote like any other students, he focused more on the practical aspect of the knowledge. As a result, he was able to shock a bully in the groin with electricity. There was another student like him, who was working on his own helicopter project. However, their director, Virus(a nickname of course) wouldn't allow him to graduate. The heartbreaking rejection ultimately led to the student's suicide. Rancho realized the education system in India was extremely flawed. It suppressed the personalities of all the students, focusing on nothing but the grades. Rancho decided to step up against it. He kept challenging his teachers and even the director. He made 2 good friends, Farhan and Raju(the two goofy idiots in the beginning) and really inspired them. Later, he met a girl named Pia, who turned out to be the director's daughter. A lot of clashes occurred in Rancho's intent to change the education system and even his friendship was put to test. The ending of the movie was so touching that anybody would shed tears from their eyes, with a small twist that would made everything pleasant once again.  Overall, it's really a sweet movie. It can be a comedy at times, with a lot of over-the-top action from Rancho and his friends. However, it's a lot more than that. It's more of an insight into the education system of India, which is similar to those in the likes of other Asian countries like China, Japan and Korea. It can at times be so heart- warming that your tears can't help but surge out like waterfalls. It can be a musical too, with a lot of exotic dances and songs which are common among Indian movies. Great film. Totally change my impression for Indian movies. Easily 10/10.Rajkumar Hirani... the name is enough to create an excitement in any cinema-fan alive. Munnabhai series have been awesome films, and his latest offering '3 Idiots' is another Masterstroke from this genius.  I have no idea how 5-point-someone is, all I know is that '3 Idiots' is an amazing/awesome/inspiring film. A treat of a film! A film that is rich in emotions, A Film that leaves behind a great moral. The Youth are sure to worship this Film, and that will make this film a blockbuster. Cancel anything you're planning to do till the 31st, watch '3 Idiots', it's worth your time and money. Hirani and Joshi's script is simply superb. Through Humor how many rights and wrongs are said. I really loved the way Hirani showed us Sharman's family. A typical 1950's family, it's hilarious as well as genius.   The film has Superb Performances: Aamir is fantastic as Funsok Wang Do. He's a delight every time he appears on screen and delivers his careers finest work. Maddy excels, he's astounding in the sequence when he shares his heart with his father. Sharman Joshi is good, yet again. Omi is a Masterstroke. A surprise packet, his speech sequence is sure to be remembered forever! Kareena is weak. Boman Irani is mind-blowing as the vicious head. He leaves you speechless in the scene when he awards Aamir The Pen. Mona is average.  The Music is decent, with 'All Izz Well' being a complete chart-buster. The cinematography is perfect. All other departments are satisfactory.  Watch this film right now...If i could give this movie higher then a 10. I would. I think anyone gives this movie a low marking, should not be allowed to judge movies, maybe even keep them out of the theaters!!! This movie is funny, charming, loving, did i mention funny? Will make u tear from laughing as well as in other moments. One second you'll be laughing, and the next second you'll feel their pains. Lots of ups and downs. awesome movie........must watch for everyone.  Amir khan has always been great. Old classic movies to all the new ones. He has broadened his horizon. Amazing actor who plays serious parts as well as goofy roles. He kind of reminded me of Johnny Depp. Man is brilliant. The Dean of the school was also hilarious. I know that had to be a hard role to play, but wow did he pull it off.  Again, must watch for young, old, teens. If you have been through college, it will definitely hit the spot a little more.. Enjoy!Well, at least it is in Asian's Mind. It's SO GODDAMN GOOD for Asians.You don't get the high school thing so you think it's overrated. Well, Dark Knight and The Avengers are overrated for us because we don't get the superheroes thing. But so what? Still, a lot of people love it, so Stop Taking Your Personal feelings as The Lethal Truth.   To make you understand better. Let me tell you something about the high school thing. If you have studied in Chinese or Indian High school you will understand what's all about the suicide and sad plot. Life was like a pis of sh!t. You have to wake up at 6:30 and go to bed after like 10:30, you can never choose your class, you can never say anything that against the teacher, you can never be in relationship with boys or girls. Right here, NO PARTY, NO PROM, NO NOTHING. All you have to do and all you can do is study and study, and the only way to make your life better is to get good grades. Because of the hard works and lack of fun, you're totally exhausted while the teachers and parents keep complains that you're lazy. And what's even funnier, is that 80% of what you have struggled to learn has nothing to do with your future life. So it simply sucks here.  That's why we love the film, it showed our mind, it's not a perfect movie. But it make us laugh and cry. This movie is 9.1 in douban.com(A Really Famous Website in China)  It's 8 out of 10 for us, and even for some of you. For some of you, it's 6 or 7 out of 10. So, it's 8.1 for average. NOTHING IS WRONG.   So, please, try to understand.3 idiots offers a great deal of fun. Indeed, one of the best movies I have ever seen! Its experience is simple, yet it's great in every aspect! I absolutely loved the fact that this film had it all, wonderful atmosphere, brilliant acting, lovely inspiring songs and a surprisingly thrilling story! During the movie, I laughed and cried A LOT!! The combination of the movie aspects was astonishing. I never thought I would enjoy an Indian movie as much as I enjoyed Slumdog Millionaire, but this one simply surpasses every other Indian movie. The story is touching, inspiring and funny.. at the same time!! This movie is plain FUN. It's about family, friendship and a little bit of romance. It had a great deal of great family moments that are still stuck in my mind till now (I saw the movie a week ago!) Plus it deals with friendship and its impacts on a person's life, and what a brilliant friendship story we saw in this movie! One of the greatest friendship stories captured on cinema mixed joyously with top-notch fun. I recommend this movie to anyone who actually wants to enjoy a real movie experience that has it all, in other words.. this movie is recommended for EVERYONE!   Acting: 10, Direction: 9, Soundtrack: 10, Story: 10, Overall rating: A decent 10!  Don't just rent it, OWN it and show it to friends who like to enjoy a fun movie!this movie has a lot of things to tell us ..it shows us the extremely huge power of the mind and when the people are free,use their minds correctly and do what they really love as a job in their lives and not what the other people say to them,only then they success,and most of all they are happy and they can live every time of their lives..  a movie with so much fun and suspense,with so great direction gives a so inspired result,and everyone will be full of emotions and optimism..  i really thought that bollywood was some kind of parody,but without so much fun,without good direction and a lot of things like these..i am really sorry for that but i couldn't know..i thought that they were extemporaneous...fortunately,that movie made me wrong..it showed me that the films from east have so much fantasy and inspiration that i could never imagine..  you have to see it!!BREAKPOINT1BREAKPOINT2BREAKPOINT3BREAKPOINT4BREAKPOINT5